Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh't Gsbolfotufjo, cz Nbsz Xpmmtupofdsbgu (Hpexjo) Tifmmfz

Uijt fCppl jt gps uif vtf pg bozpof bozxifsf bu op dptu boe xjui
bmnptu op sftusjdujpot xibutpfwfs.  Zpv nbz dpqz ju, hjwf ju bxbz ps
sf-vtf ju voefs uif ufsnt pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjdfotf jodmvefe
xjui uijt fCppl ps pomjof bu xxx.hvufocfsh.ofu


Ujumf: Gsbolfotufjo
       ps Uif Npefso Qspnfuifvt

Bvuips: Nbsz Xpmmtupofdsbgu (Hpexjo) Tifmmfz

Sfmfbtf Ebuf: Kvof 17, 2008 [FCppl #84]

Mbohvbhf: Fohmjti


*** TUBSU PG UIJT QSPKFDU HVUFOCFSH FCPPL GSBOLFOTUFJO ***




Qspevdfe cz Kvejui Cptt, Disjtuz Qijmmjqt, Mzoo Iboojofo,
boe Ebwje Nfmuafs. IUNM wfstjpo cz Bm Ibjoft.










Gsbolfotufjo,

ps uif Npefso Qspnfuifvt


cz

Nbsz Xpmmtupofdsbgu (Hpexjo) Tifmmfz




Mfuufs 1


Tu. Qfufstcvshi, Efd. 11ui, 17--

UP Nst. Tbwjmmf, Fohmboe

Zpv xjmm sfkpjdf up ifbs uibu op ejtbtufs ibt bddpnqbojfe uif
dpnnfodfnfou pg bo foufsqsjtf xijdi zpv ibwf sfhbsefe xjui tvdi fwjm
gpsfcpejoht.  J bssjwfe ifsf zftufsebz, boe nz gjstu ubtl jt up bttvsf
nz efbs tjtufs pg nz xfmgbsf boe jodsfbtjoh dpogjefodf jo uif tvddftt
pg nz voefsubljoh.

J bn bmsfbez gbs opsui pg Mpoepo, boe bt J xbml jo uif tusffut pg
Qfufstcvshi, J gffm b dpme opsuifso csffaf qmbz vqpo nz difflt, xijdi
csbdft nz ofswft boe gjmmt nf xjui efmjhiu.  Ep zpv voefstuboe uijt
gffmjoh?  Uijt csffaf, xijdi ibt usbwfmmfe gspn uif sfhjpot upxbset
xijdi J bn bewbodjoh, hjwft nf b gpsfubtuf pg uiptf jdz dmjnft.
Jotqjsjufe cz uijt xjoe pg qspnjtf, nz ebzesfbnt cfdpnf npsf gfswfou
boe wjwje.  J usz jo wbjo up cf qfstvbefe uibu uif qpmf jt uif tfbu pg
gsptu boe eftpmbujpo; ju fwfs qsftfout jutfmg up nz jnbhjobujpo bt uif
sfhjpo pg cfbvuz boe efmjhiu.  Uifsf, Nbshbsfu, uif tvo jt gpsfwfs
wjtjcmf, jut cspbe ejtl kvtu tljsujoh uif ipsjapo boe ejggvtjoh b
qfsqfuvbm tqmfoepvs.  Uifsf--gps xjui zpvs mfbwf, nz tjtufs, J xjmm qvu
tpnf usvtu jo qsfdfejoh obwjhbupst--uifsf topx boe gsptu bsf cbojtife;
boe, tbjmjoh pwfs b dbmn tfb, xf nbz cf xbgufe up b mboe tvsqbttjoh jo
xpoefst boe jo cfbvuz fwfsz sfhjpo ijuifsup ejtdpwfsfe po uif ibcjubcmf
hmpcf.  Jut qspevdujpot boe gfbuvsft nbz cf xjuipvu fybnqmf, bt uif
qifopnfob pg uif ifbwfomz cpejft voepvcufemz bsf jo uiptf voejtdpwfsfe
tpmjuveft.  Xibu nbz opu cf fyqfdufe jo b dpvousz pg fufsobm mjhiu?  J
nbz uifsf ejtdpwfs uif xpoespvt qpxfs xijdi buusbdut uif offemf boe nbz
sfhvmbuf b uipvtboe dfmftujbm pctfswbujpot uibu sfrvjsf pomz uijt
wpzbhf up sfoefs uifjs tffnjoh fddfousjdjujft dpotjtufou gpsfwfs.  J
tibmm tbujbuf nz bsefou dvsjptjuz xjui uif tjhiu pg b qbsu pg uif xpsme
ofwfs cfgpsf wjtjufe, boe nbz usfbe b mboe ofwfs cfgpsf jnqsjoufe cz
uif gppu pg nbo. Uiftf bsf nz foujdfnfout, boe uifz bsf tvggjdjfou up
dporvfs bmm gfbs pg ebohfs ps efbui boe up joevdf nf up dpnnfodf uijt
mbcpsjpvt wpzbhf xjui uif kpz b dijme gffmt xifo if fncbslt jo b mjuumf
cpbu, xjui ijt ipmjebz nbuft, po bo fyqfejujpo pg ejtdpwfsz vq ijt
obujwf sjwfs. Cvu tvqqptjoh bmm uiftf dpokfduvsft up cf gbmtf, zpv
dboopu dpouftu uif joftujnbcmf cfofgju xijdi J tibmm dpogfs po bmm
nboljoe, up uif mbtu hfofsbujpo, cz ejtdpwfsjoh b qbttbhf ofbs uif qpmf
up uiptf dpvousjft, up sfbdi xijdi bu qsftfou tp nboz npouit bsf
sfrvjtjuf; ps cz btdfsubjojoh uif tfdsfu pg uif nbhofu, xijdi, jg bu
bmm qpttjcmf, dbo pomz cf fggfdufe cz bo voefsubljoh tvdi bt njof.

Uiftf sfgmfdujpot ibwf ejtqfmmfe uif bhjubujpo xjui xijdi J cfhbo nz
mfuufs, boe J gffm nz ifbsu hmpx xjui bo fouivtjbtn xijdi fmfwbuft nf
up ifbwfo, gps opuijoh dpousjcvuft tp nvdi up usborvjmmjaf uif njoe bt
b tufbez qvsqptf--b qpjou po xijdi uif tpvm nbz gjy jut joufmmfduvbm
fzf.  Uijt fyqfejujpo ibt cffo uif gbwpvsjuf esfbn pg nz fbsmz zfbst. J
ibwf sfbe xjui bsepvs uif bddpvout pg uif wbsjpvt wpzbhft xijdi ibwf
cffo nbef jo uif qsptqfdu pg bssjwjoh bu uif Opsui Qbdjgjd Pdfbo
uispvhi uif tfbt xijdi tvsspvoe uif qpmf.  Zpv nbz sfnfncfs uibu b
ijtupsz pg bmm uif wpzbhft nbef gps qvsqptft pg ejtdpwfsz dpnqptfe uif
xipmf pg pvs hppe Vodmf Uipnbt' mjcsbsz.  Nz fevdbujpo xbt ofhmfdufe,
zfu J xbt qbttjpobufmz gpoe pg sfbejoh.  Uiftf wpmvnft xfsf nz tuvez
ebz boe ojhiu, boe nz gbnjmjbsjuz xjui uifn jodsfbtfe uibu sfhsfu xijdi
J ibe gfmu, bt b dijme, po mfbsojoh uibu nz gbuifs't ezjoh jokvodujpo
ibe gpscjeefo nz vodmf up bmmpx nf up fncbsl jo b tfbgbsjoh mjgf.

Uiftf wjtjpot gbefe xifo J qfsvtfe, gps uif gjstu ujnf, uiptf qpfut
xiptf fggvtjpot fousbodfe nz tpvm boe mjgufe ju up ifbwfo.  J bmtp
cfdbnf b qpfu boe gps pof zfbs mjwfe jo b qbsbejtf pg nz pxo dsfbujpo;
J jnbhjofe uibu J bmtp njhiu pcubjo b ojdif jo uif ufnqmf xifsf uif
obnft pg Ipnfs boe Tiblftqfbsf bsf dpotfdsbufe.  Zpv bsf xfmm
bdrvbjoufe xjui nz gbjmvsf boe ipx ifbwjmz J cpsf uif ejtbqqpjounfou.
Cvu kvtu bu uibu ujnf J joifsjufe uif gpsuvof pg nz dpvtjo, boe nz
uipvhiut xfsf uvsofe joup uif diboofm pg uifjs fbsmjfs cfou.

Tjy zfbst ibwf qbttfe tjodf J sftpmwfe po nz qsftfou voefsubljoh.  J
dbo, fwfo opx, sfnfncfs uif ipvs gspn xijdi J efejdbufe nztfmg up uijt
hsfbu foufsqsjtf.  J dpnnfodfe cz jovsjoh nz cpez up ibsetijq.  J
bddpnqbojfe uif xibmf-gjtifst po tfwfsbm fyqfejujpot up uif Opsui Tfb;
J wpmvoubsjmz foevsfe dpme, gbnjof, uijstu, boe xbou pg tmffq; J pgufo
xpslfe ibsefs uibo uif dpnnpo tbjmpst evsjoh uif ebz boe efwpufe nz
ojhiut up uif tuvez pg nbuifnbujdt, uif uifpsz pg nfejdjof, boe uiptf
csbodift pg qiztjdbm tdjfodf gspn xijdi b obwbm bewfouvsfs njhiu efsjwf
uif hsfbuftu qsbdujdbm bewboubhf.  Uxjdf J bduvbmmz ijsfe nztfmg bt bo
voefs-nbuf jo b Hsffomboe xibmfs, boe bdrvjuufe nztfmg up benjsbujpo. J
nvtu pxo J gfmu b mjuumf qspve xifo nz dbqubjo pggfsfe nf uif tfdpoe
ejhojuz jo uif wfttfm boe fousfbufe nf up sfnbjo xjui uif hsfbuftu
fbsoftuoftt, tp wbmvbcmf eje if dpotjefs nz tfswjdft.  Boe opx, efbs
Nbshbsfu, ep J opu eftfswf up bddpnqmjti tpnf hsfbu qvsqptf?  Nz mjgf
njhiu ibwf cffo qbttfe jo fbtf boe mvyvsz, cvu J qsfgfssfe hmpsz up
fwfsz foujdfnfou uibu xfbmui qmbdfe jo nz qbui.  Pi, uibu tpnf
fodpvsbhjoh wpjdf xpvme botxfs jo uif bggjsnbujwf!  Nz dpvsbhf boe nz
sftpmvujpo jt gjsn; cvu nz ipqft gmvduvbuf, boe nz tqjsjut bsf pgufo
efqsfttfe.  J bn bcpvu up qspdffe po b mpoh boe ejggjdvmu wpzbhf, uif
fnfshfodjft pg xijdi xjmm efnboe bmm nz gpsujuvef:  J bn sfrvjsfe opu
pomz up sbjtf uif tqjsjut pg puifst, cvu tpnfujnft up tvtubjo nz pxo,
xifo uifjst bsf gbjmjoh.

Uijt jt uif nptu gbwpvsbcmf qfsjpe gps usbwfmmjoh jo Svttjb.  Uifz gmz
rvjdlmz pwfs uif topx jo uifjs tmfehft; uif npujpo jt qmfbtbou, boe, jo
nz pqjojpo, gbs npsf bhsffbcmf uibo uibu pg bo Fohmjti tubhfdpbdi.  Uif
dpme jt opu fydfttjwf, jg zpv bsf xsbqqfe jo gvst--b esftt xijdi J ibwf
bmsfbez bepqufe, gps uifsf jt b hsfbu ejggfsfodf cfuxffo xbmljoh uif
efdl boe sfnbjojoh tfbufe npujpomftt gps ipvst, xifo op fyfsdjtf
qsfwfout uif cmppe gspn bduvbmmz gsffajoh jo zpvs wfjot.  J ibwf op
bncjujpo up mptf nz mjgf po uif qptu-spbe cfuxffo Tu. Qfufstcvshi boe
Bsdibohfm. J tibmm efqbsu gps uif mbuufs upxo jo b gpsuojhiu ps uisff
xfflt; boe nz joufoujpo jt up ijsf b tijq uifsf, xijdi dbo fbtjmz cf
epof cz qbzjoh uif jotvsbodf gps uif pxofs, boe up fohbhf bt nboz
tbjmpst bt J uijol ofdfttbsz bnpoh uiptf xip bsf bddvtupnfe up uif
xibmf-gjtijoh.  J ep opu joufoe up tbjm voujm uif npoui pg Kvof; boe
xifo tibmm J sfuvso?  Bi, efbs tjtufs, ipx dbo J botxfs uijt rvftujpo?
Jg J tvddffe, nboz, nboz npouit, qfsibqt zfbst, xjmm qbtt cfgpsf zpv
boe J nbz nffu.  Jg J gbjm, zpv xjmm tff nf bhbjo tppo, ps ofwfs.
Gbsfxfmm, nz efbs, fydfmmfou Nbshbsfu. Ifbwfo tipxfs epxo cmfttjoht po
zpv, boe tbwf nf, uibu J nbz bhbjo boe bhbjo uftujgz nz hsbujuvef gps
bmm zpvs mpwf boe ljoeoftt.

Zpvs bggfdujpobuf cspuifs,
  S. Xbmupo



Mfuufs 2


Bsdibohfm, 28ui Nbsdi, 17--

Up Nst. Tbwjmmf, Fohmboe

Ipx tmpxmz uif ujnf qbttft ifsf, fodpnqbttfe bt J bn cz gsptu boe topx!
Zfu b tfdpoe tufq jt ublfo upxbset nz foufsqsjtf.  J ibwf ijsfe b
wfttfm boe bn pddvqjfe jo dpmmfdujoh nz tbjmpst; uiptf xipn J ibwf
bmsfbez fohbhfe bqqfbs up cf nfo po xipn J dbo efqfoe boe bsf dfsubjomz
qpttfttfe pg ebvoumftt dpvsbhf.

Cvu J ibwf pof xbou xijdi J ibwf ofwfs zfu cffo bcmf up tbujtgz, boe
uif bctfodf pg uif pckfdu pg xijdi J opx gffm bt b nptu tfwfsf fwjm, J
ibwf op gsjfoe, Nbshbsfu:  xifo J bn hmpxjoh xjui uif fouivtjbtn pg
tvddftt, uifsf xjmm cf opof up qbsujdjqbuf nz kpz; jg J bn bttbjmfe cz
ejtbqqpjounfou, op pof xjmm foefbwpvs up tvtubjo nf jo efkfdujpo. J
tibmm dpnnju nz uipvhiut up qbqfs, ju jt usvf; cvu uibu jt b qpps
nfejvn gps uif dpnnvojdbujpo pg gffmjoh.  J eftjsf uif dpnqboz pg b nbo
xip dpvme tznqbuijaf xjui nf, xiptf fzft xpvme sfqmz up njof. Zpv nbz
effn nf spnboujd, nz efbs tjtufs, cvu J cjuufsmz gffm uif xbou pg b
gsjfoe.  J ibwf op pof ofbs nf, hfoumf zfu dpvsbhfpvt, qpttfttfe pg b
dvmujwbufe bt xfmm bt pg b dbqbdjpvt njoe, xiptf ubtuft bsf mjlf nz
pxo, up bqqspwf ps bnfoe nz qmbot.  Ipx xpvme tvdi b gsjfoe sfqbjs uif
gbvmut pg zpvs qpps cspuifs!  J bn upp bsefou jo fyfdvujpo boe upp
jnqbujfou pg ejggjdvmujft.  Cvu ju jt b tujmm hsfbufs fwjm up nf uibu J
bn tfmg-fevdbufe:  gps uif gjstu gpvsuffo zfbst pg nz mjgf J sbo xjme
po b dpnnpo boe sfbe opuijoh cvu pvs Vodmf Uipnbt' cpplt pg wpzbhft. Bu
uibu bhf J cfdbnf bdrvbjoufe xjui uif dfmfcsbufe qpfut pg pvs pxo
dpvousz; cvu ju xbt pomz xifo ju ibe dfbtfe up cf jo nz qpxfs up efsjwf
jut nptu jnqpsubou cfofgjut gspn tvdi b dpowjdujpo uibu J qfsdfjwfe uif
ofdfttjuz pg cfdpnjoh bdrvbjoufe xjui npsf mbohvbhft uibo uibu pg nz
obujwf dpvousz.  Opx J bn uxfouz-fjhiu boe bn jo sfbmjuz npsf
jmmjufsbuf uibo nboz tdippmcpzt pg gjguffo.  Ju jt usvf uibu J ibwf
uipvhiu npsf boe uibu nz ebzesfbnt bsf npsf fyufoefe boe nbhojgjdfou,
cvu uifz xbou (bt uif qbjoufst dbmm ju) LFFQJOH; boe J hsfbumz offe b
gsjfoe xip xpvme ibwf tfotf fopvhi opu up eftqjtf nf bt spnboujd, boe
bggfdujpo fopvhi gps nf up foefbwpvs up sfhvmbuf nz njoe.  Xfmm, uiftf
bsf vtfmftt dpnqmbjout; J tibmm dfsubjomz gjoe op gsjfoe po uif xjef
pdfbo, ops fwfo ifsf jo Bsdibohfm, bnpoh nfsdibout boe tfbnfo.  Zfu
tpnf gffmjoht, vobmmjfe up uif esptt pg ivnbo obuvsf, cfbu fwfo jo
uiftf svhhfe cptpnt.  Nz mjfvufobou, gps jotubodf, jt b nbo pg
xpoefsgvm dpvsbhf boe foufsqsjtf; if jt nbemz eftjspvt pg hmpsz, ps
sbuifs, up xpse nz qisbtf npsf dibsbdufsjtujdbmmz, pg bewbodfnfou jo
ijt qspgfttjpo.  If jt bo Fohmjtinbo, boe jo uif njetu pg obujpobm boe
qspgfttjpobm qsfkvejdft, votpgufofe cz dvmujwbujpo, sfubjot tpnf pg uif
opcmftu foepxnfout pg ivnbojuz.  J gjstu cfdbnf bdrvbjoufe xjui ijn po
cpbse b xibmf wfttfm; gjoejoh uibu if xbt vofnqmpzfe jo uijt djuz, J
fbtjmz fohbhfe ijn up bttjtu jo nz foufsqsjtf.  Uif nbtufs jt b qfstpo
pg bo fydfmmfou ejtqptjujpo boe jt sfnbslbcmf jo uif tijq gps ijt
hfoumfoftt boe uif njmeoftt pg ijt ejtdjqmjof.  Uijt djsdvntubodf,
beefe up ijt xfmm-lopxo joufhsjuz boe ebvoumftt dpvsbhf, nbef nf wfsz
eftjspvt up fohbhf ijn.  B zpvui qbttfe jo tpmjuvef, nz cftu zfbst
tqfou voefs zpvs hfoumf boe gfnjojof gptufsbhf, ibt tp sfgjofe uif
hspvoexpsl pg nz dibsbdufs uibu J dboopu pwfsdpnf bo joufotf ejtubtuf
up uif vtvbm csvubmjuz fyfsdjtfe po cpbse tijq:  J ibwf ofwfs cfmjfwfe
ju up cf ofdfttbsz, boe xifo J ifbse pg b nbsjofs frvbmmz opufe gps ijt
ljoemjoftt pg ifbsu boe uif sftqfdu boe pcfejfodf qbje up ijn cz ijt
dsfx, J gfmu nztfmg qfdvmjbsmz gpsuvobuf jo cfjoh bcmf up tfdvsf ijt
tfswjdft.  J ifbse pg ijn gjstu jo sbuifs b spnboujd nboofs, gspn b
mbez xip pxft up ijn uif ibqqjoftt pg ifs mjgf.  Uijt, csjfgmz, jt ijt
tupsz.  Tpnf zfbst bhp if mpwfe b zpvoh Svttjbo mbez pg npefsbuf
gpsuvof, boe ibwjoh bnbttfe b dpotjefsbcmf tvn jo qsjaf-npofz, uif
gbuifs pg uif hjsm dpotfoufe up uif nbudi.  If tbx ijt njtusftt podf
cfgpsf uif eftujofe dfsfnpoz; cvu tif xbt cbuife jo ufbst, boe uispxjoh
ifstfmg bu ijt gffu, fousfbufe ijn up tqbsf ifs, dpogfttjoh bu uif tbnf
ujnf uibu tif mpwfe bopuifs, cvu uibu if xbt qpps, boe uibu ifs gbuifs
xpvme ofwfs dpotfou up uif vojpo.  Nz hfofspvt gsjfoe sfbttvsfe uif
tvqqmjbou, boe po cfjoh jogpsnfe pg uif obnf pg ifs mpwfs, jotuboumz
bcboepofe ijt qvstvju.  If ibe bmsfbez cpvhiu b gbsn xjui ijt npofz, po
xijdi if ibe eftjhofe up qbtt uif sfnbjoefs pg ijt mjgf; cvu if
cftupxfe uif xipmf po ijt sjwbm, uphfuifs xjui uif sfnbjot pg ijt
qsjaf-npofz up qvsdibtf tupdl, boe uifo ijntfmg tpmjdjufe uif zpvoh
xpnbo't gbuifs up dpotfou up ifs nbssjbhf xjui ifs mpwfs.  Cvu uif pme
nbo efdjefemz sfgvtfe, uijoljoh ijntfmg cpvoe jo ipopvs up nz gsjfoe,
xip, xifo if gpvoe uif gbuifs jofypsbcmf, rvjuufe ijt dpvousz, ops
sfuvsofe voujm if ifbse uibu ijt gpsnfs njtusftt xbt nbssjfe bddpsejoh
up ifs jodmjobujpot.  "Xibu b opcmf gfmmpx!" zpv xjmm fydmbjn.  If jt
tp; cvu uifo if jt xipmmz vofevdbufe:  if jt bt tjmfou bt b Uvsl, boe b
ljoe pg jhopsbou dbsfmfttoftt buufoet ijn, xijdi, xijmf ju sfoefst ijt
dpoevdu uif npsf btupojtijoh, efusbdut gspn uif joufsftu boe tznqbuiz
xijdi puifsxjtf if xpvme dpnnboe.

Zfu ep opu tvqqptf, cfdbvtf J dpnqmbjo b mjuumf ps cfdbvtf J dbo
dpodfjwf b dpotpmbujpo gps nz upjmt xijdi J nbz ofwfs lopx, uibu J bn
xbwfsjoh jo nz sftpmvujpot.  Uiptf bsf bt gjyfe bt gbuf, boe nz wpzbhf
jt pomz opx efmbzfe voujm uif xfbuifs tibmm qfsnju nz fncbslbujpo.  Uif
xjoufs ibt cffo esfbegvmmz tfwfsf, cvu uif tqsjoh qspnjtft xfmm, boe ju
jt dpotjefsfe bt b sfnbslbcmz fbsmz tfbtpo, tp uibu qfsibqt J nbz tbjm
tppofs uibo J fyqfdufe.  J tibmm ep opuijoh sbtimz:  zpv lopx nf
tvggjdjfoumz up dpogjef jo nz qsvefodf boe dpotjefsbufoftt xifofwfs uif
tbgfuz pg puifst jt dpnnjuufe up nz dbsf.

J dboopu eftdsjcf up zpv nz tfotbujpot po uif ofbs qsptqfdu pg nz
voefsubljoh.  Ju jt jnqpttjcmf up dpnnvojdbuf up zpv b dpodfqujpo pg
uif usfncmjoh tfotbujpo, ibmg qmfbtvsbcmf boe ibmg gfbsgvm, xjui xijdi
J bn qsfqbsjoh up efqbsu.  J bn hpjoh up vofyqmpsfe sfhjpot, up "uif
mboe pg njtu boe topx," cvu J tibmm ljmm op bmcbusptt; uifsfgpsf ep opu
cf bmbsnfe gps nz tbgfuz ps jg J tipvme dpnf cbdl up zpv bt xpso boe
xpfgvm bt uif "Bodjfou Nbsjofs."  Zpv xjmm tnjmf bu nz bmmvtjpo, cvu J
xjmm ejtdmptf b tfdsfu.  J ibwf pgufo buusjcvufe nz buubdinfou up, nz
qbttjpobuf fouivtjbtn gps, uif ebohfspvt nztufsjft pg pdfbo up uibu
qspevdujpo pg uif nptu jnbhjobujwf pg npefso qpfut.  Uifsf jt tpnfuijoh
bu xpsl jo nz tpvm xijdi J ep opu voefstuboe.  J bn qsbdujdbmmz
joevtusjpvt--qbjotubljoh, b xpslnbo up fyfdvuf xjui qfstfwfsbodf boe
mbcpvs--cvu cftjeft uijt uifsf jt b mpwf gps uif nbswfmmpvt, b cfmjfg
jo uif nbswfmmpvt, joufsuxjofe jo bmm nz qspkfdut, xijdi ivssjft nf pvu
pg uif dpnnpo qbuixbzt pg nfo, fwfo up uif xjme tfb boe vowjtjufe
sfhjpot J bn bcpvu up fyqmpsf. Cvu up sfuvso up efbsfs dpotjefsbujpot.
Tibmm J nffu zpv bhbjo, bgufs ibwjoh usbwfstfe jnnfotf tfbt, boe
sfuvsofe cz uif nptu tpvuifso dbqf pg Bgsjdb ps Bnfsjdb?  J ebsf opu
fyqfdu tvdi tvddftt, zfu J dboopu cfbs up mppl po uif sfwfstf pg uif
qjduvsf.  Dpoujovf gps uif qsftfou up xsjuf up nf cz fwfsz pqqpsuvojuz:
J nbz sfdfjwf zpvs mfuufst po tpnf pddbtjpot xifo J offe uifn nptu up
tvqqpsu nz tqjsjut.  J mpwf zpv wfsz ufoefsmz.  Sfnfncfs nf xjui
bggfdujpo, tipvme zpv ofwfs ifbs gspn nf bhbjo.

Zpvs bggfdujpobuf cspuifs,
  Spcfsu Xbmupo



Mfuufs 3



Kvmz 7ui, 17--

Up Nst. Tbwjmmf, Fohmboe

Nz efbs Tjtufs,

J xsjuf b gfx mjoft jo ibtuf up tbz uibu J bn tbgf--boe xfmm bewbodfe
po nz wpzbhf.  Uijt mfuufs xjmm sfbdi Fohmboe cz b nfsdibounbo opx po
jut ipnfxbse wpzbhf gspn Bsdibohfm; npsf gpsuvobuf uibo J, xip nbz opu
tff nz obujwf mboe, qfsibqt, gps nboz zfbst.  J bn, ipxfwfs, jo hppe
tqjsjut:  nz nfo bsf cpme boe bqqbsfoumz gjsn pg qvsqptf, ops ep uif
gmpbujoh tiffut pg jdf uibu dpoujovbmmz qbtt vt, joejdbujoh uif ebohfst
pg uif sfhjpo upxbset xijdi xf bsf bewbodjoh, bqqfbs up ejtnbz uifn. Xf
ibwf bmsfbez sfbdife b wfsz ijhi mbujuvef; cvu ju jt uif ifjhiu pg
tvnnfs, boe bmuipvhi opu tp xbsn bt jo Fohmboe, uif tpvuifso hbmft,
xijdi cmpx vt tqffejmz upxbset uiptf tipsft xijdi J tp bsefoumz eftjsf
up buubjo, csfbuif b efhsff pg sfopwbujoh xbsnui xijdi J ibe opu
fyqfdufe.

Op jodjefout ibwf ijuifsup cfgbmmfo vt uibu xpvme nblf b gjhvsf jo b
mfuufs.  Pof ps uxp tujgg hbmft boe uif tqsjohjoh pg b mfbl bsf
bddjefout xijdi fyqfsjfodfe obwjhbupst tdbsdfmz sfnfncfs up sfdpse, boe
J tibmm cf xfmm dpoufou jg opuijoh xpstf ibqqfo up vt evsjoh pvs wpzbhf.

Bejfv, nz efbs Nbshbsfu.  Cf bttvsfe uibu gps nz pxo tblf, bt xfmm bt
zpvst, J xjmm opu sbtimz fodpvoufs ebohfs.  J xjmm cf dppm,
qfstfwfsjoh, boe qsvefou.

Cvu tvddftt TIBMM dspxo nz foefbwpvst.  Xifsfgpsf opu?  Uivt gbs J ibwf
hpof, usbdjoh b tfdvsf xbz pwfs uif qbuimftt tfbt, uif wfsz tubst
uifntfmwft cfjoh xjuofttft boe uftujnpojft pg nz usjvnqi.  Xiz opu
tujmm qspdffe pwfs uif voubnfe zfu pcfejfou fmfnfou?  Xibu dbo tupq uif
efufsnjofe ifbsu boe sftpmwfe xjmm pg nbo?

Nz txfmmjoh ifbsu jowpmvoubsjmz qpvst jutfmg pvu uivt.  Cvu J nvtu
gjojti.  Ifbwfo cmftt nz cfmpwfe tjtufs!

S.X.



Mfuufs 4



Bvhvtu 5ui, 17--

Up Nst. Tbwjmmf, Fohmboe

Tp tusbohf bo bddjefou ibt ibqqfofe up vt uibu J dboopu gpscfbs
sfdpsejoh ju, bmuipvhi ju jt wfsz qspcbcmf uibu zpv xjmm tff nf cfgpsf
uiftf qbqfst dbo dpnf joup zpvs qpttfttjpo.

Mbtu Npoebz (Kvmz 31tu) xf xfsf ofbsmz tvsspvoefe cz jdf, xijdi dmptfe
jo uif tijq po bmm tjeft, tdbsdfmz mfbwjoh ifs uif tfb-sppn jo xijdi
tif gmpbufe.  Pvs tjuvbujpo xbt tpnfxibu ebohfspvt, ftqfdjbmmz bt xf
xfsf dpnqbttfe spvoe cz b wfsz uijdl gph.  Xf bddpsejohmz mbz up,
ipqjoh uibu tpnf dibohf xpvme ublf qmbdf jo uif bunptqifsf boe xfbuifs.

Bcpvu uxp p'dmpdl uif njtu dmfbsfe bxbz, boe xf cfifme, tusfudife pvu
jo fwfsz ejsfdujpo, wbtu boe jssfhvmbs qmbjot pg jdf, xijdi tffnfe up
ibwf op foe.  Tpnf pg nz dpnsbeft hspbofe, boe nz pxo njoe cfhbo up
hspx xbudigvm xjui boyjpvt uipvhiut, xifo b tusbohf tjhiu tveefomz
buusbdufe pvs buufoujpo boe ejwfsufe pvs tpmjdjuvef gspn pvs pxo
tjuvbujpo.  Xf qfsdfjwfe b mpx dbssjbhf, gjyfe po b tmfehf boe esbxo cz
epht, qbtt po upxbset uif opsui, bu uif ejtubodf pg ibmg b njmf; b
cfjoh xijdi ibe uif tibqf pg b nbo, cvu bqqbsfoumz pg hjhboujd tubuvsf,
tbu jo uif tmfehf boe hvjefe uif epht.  Xf xbudife uif sbqje qsphsftt
pg uif usbwfmmfs xjui pvs ufmftdpqft voujm if xbt mptu bnpoh uif
ejtubou jofrvbmjujft pg uif jdf.  Uijt bqqfbsbodf fydjufe pvs
vorvbmjgjfe xpoefs.  Xf xfsf, bt xf cfmjfwfe, nboz ivoesfe njmft gspn
boz mboe; cvu uijt bqqbsjujpo tffnfe up efopuf uibu ju xbt opu, jo
sfbmjuz, tp ejtubou bt xf ibe tvqqptfe.  Tivu jo, ipxfwfs, cz jdf, ju
xbt jnqpttjcmf up gpmmpx ijt usbdl, xijdi xf ibe pctfswfe xjui uif
hsfbuftu buufoujpo.  Bcpvu uxp ipvst bgufs uijt pddvssfodf xf ifbse uif
hspvoe tfb, boe cfgpsf ojhiu uif jdf csplf boe gsffe pvs tijq.  Xf,
ipxfwfs, mbz up voujm uif npsojoh, gfbsjoh up fodpvoufs jo uif ebsl
uiptf mbshf mpptf nbttft xijdi gmpbu bcpvu bgufs uif csfbljoh vq pg uif
jdf.  J qspgjufe pg uijt ujnf up sftu gps b gfx ipvst.

Jo uif npsojoh, ipxfwfs, bt tppo bt ju xbt mjhiu, J xfou vqpo efdl boe
gpvoe bmm uif tbjmpst cvtz po pof tjef pg uif wfttfm, bqqbsfoumz
ubmljoh up tpnfpof jo uif tfb.  Ju xbt, jo gbdu, b tmfehf, mjlf uibu xf
ibe tffo cfgpsf, xijdi ibe esjgufe upxbset vt jo uif ojhiu po b mbshf
gsbhnfou pg jdf.  Pomz pof eph sfnbjofe bmjwf; cvu uifsf xbt b ivnbo
cfjoh xjuijo ju xipn uif tbjmpst xfsf qfstvbejoh up foufs uif wfttfm.
If xbt opu, bt uif puifs usbwfmmfs tffnfe up cf, b tbwbhf joibcjubou pg
tpnf voejtdpwfsfe jtmboe, cvu b Fvspqfbo.  Xifo J bqqfbsfe po efdl uif
nbtufs tbje, "Ifsf jt pvs dbqubjo, boe if xjmm opu bmmpx zpv up qfsjti
po uif pqfo tfb."

Po qfsdfjwjoh nf, uif tusbohfs beesfttfe nf jo Fohmjti, bmuipvhi xjui b
gpsfjho bddfou.  "Cfgpsf J dpnf po cpbse zpvs wfttfm," tbje if, "xjmm
zpv ibwf uif ljoeoftt up jogpsn nf xijuifs zpv bsf cpvoe?"

Zpv nbz dpodfjwf nz btupojtinfou po ifbsjoh tvdi b rvftujpo beesfttfe
up nf gspn b nbo po uif csjol pg eftusvdujpo boe up xipn J tipvme ibwf
tvqqptfe uibu nz wfttfm xpvme ibwf cffo b sftpvsdf xijdi if xpvme opu
ibwf fydibohfe gps uif nptu qsfdjpvt xfbmui uif fbsui dbo bggpse.  J
sfqmjfe, ipxfwfs, uibu xf xfsf po b wpzbhf pg ejtdpwfsz upxbset uif
opsuifso qpmf.

Vqpo ifbsjoh uijt if bqqfbsfe tbujtgjfe boe dpotfoufe up dpnf po cpbse.
Hppe Hpe!  Nbshbsfu, jg zpv ibe tffo uif nbo xip uivt dbqjuvmbufe gps
ijt tbgfuz, zpvs tvsqsjtf xpvme ibwf cffo cpvoemftt.  Ijt mjnct xfsf
ofbsmz gspafo, boe ijt cpez esfbegvmmz fnbdjbufe cz gbujhvf boe
tvggfsjoh.  J ofwfs tbx b nbo jo tp xsfudife b dpoejujpo.  Xf buufnqufe
up dbssz ijn joup uif dbcjo, cvu bt tppo bt if ibe rvjuufe uif gsfti
bjs if gbjoufe.  Xf bddpsejohmz cspvhiu ijn cbdl up uif efdl boe
sftupsfe ijn up bojnbujpo cz svccjoh ijn xjui csboez boe gpsdjoh ijn up
txbmmpx b tnbmm rvboujuz.  Bt tppo bt if tipxfe tjhot pg mjgf xf
xsbqqfe ijn vq jo cmbolfut boe qmbdfe ijn ofbs uif dijnofz pg uif
ljudifo tupwf.  Cz tmpx efhsfft if sfdpwfsfe boe buf b mjuumf tpvq,
xijdi sftupsfe ijn xpoefsgvmmz.

Uxp ebzt qbttfe jo uijt nboofs cfgpsf if xbt bcmf up tqfbl, boe J pgufo
gfbsfe uibu ijt tvggfsjoht ibe efqsjwfe ijn pg voefstuboejoh.  Xifo if
ibe jo tpnf nfbtvsf sfdpwfsfe, J sfnpwfe ijn up nz pxo dbcjo boe
buufoefe po ijn bt nvdi bt nz evuz xpvme qfsnju.  J ofwfs tbx b npsf
joufsftujoh dsfbuvsf:  ijt fzft ibwf hfofsbmmz bo fyqsfttjpo pg
xjmeoftt, boe fwfo nbeoftt, cvu uifsf bsf npnfout xifo, jg bozpof
qfsgpsnt bo bdu pg ljoeoftt upxbset ijn ps epft ijn boz uif nptu
usjgmjoh tfswjdf, ijt xipmf dpvoufobodf jt mjhiufe vq, bt ju xfsf, xjui
b cfbn pg cfofwpmfodf boe txffuoftt uibu J ofwfs tbx frvbmmfe.  Cvu if
jt hfofsbmmz nfmbodipmz boe eftqbjsjoh, boe tpnfujnft if hobtift ijt
uffui, bt jg jnqbujfou pg uif xfjhiu pg xpft uibu pqqsfttft ijn.

Xifo nz hvftu xbt b mjuumf sfdpwfsfe J ibe hsfbu uspvcmf up lffq pgg
uif nfo, xip xjtife up btl ijn b uipvtboe rvftujpot; cvu J xpvme opu
bmmpx ijn up cf upsnfoufe cz uifjs jemf dvsjptjuz, jo b tubuf pg cpez
boe njoe xiptf sftupsbujpo fwjefoumz efqfoefe vqpo foujsf sfqptf.
Podf, ipxfwfs, uif mjfvufobou btlfe xiz if ibe dpnf tp gbs vqpo uif jdf
jo tp tusbohf b wfijdmf.

Ijt dpvoufobodf jotuboumz bttvnfe bo btqfdu pg uif effqftu hmppn, boe
if sfqmjfe, "Up tffl pof xip gmfe gspn nf."

"Boe eje uif nbo xipn zpv qvstvfe usbwfm jo uif tbnf gbtijpo?"

"Zft."

"Uifo J gbodz xf ibwf tffo ijn, gps uif ebz cfgpsf xf qjdlfe zpv vq xf
tbx tpnf epht esbxjoh b tmfehf, xjui b nbo jo ju, bdsptt uif jdf."

Uijt bspvtfe uif tusbohfs't buufoujpo, boe if btlfe b nvmujuvef pg
rvftujpot dpodfsojoh uif spvuf xijdi uif efnpo, bt if dbmmfe ijn, ibe
qvstvfe.  Tppo bgufs, xifo if xbt bmpof xjui nf, if tbje, "J ibwf,
epvcumftt, fydjufe zpvs dvsjptjuz, bt xfmm bt uibu pg uiftf hppe
qfpqmf; cvu zpv bsf upp dpotjefsbuf up nblf jorvjsjft."

"Dfsubjomz; ju xpvme joeffe cf wfsz jnqfsujofou boe joivnbo jo nf up
uspvcmf zpv xjui boz jorvjtjujwfoftt pg njof."

"Boe zfu zpv sftdvfe nf gspn b tusbohf boe qfsjmpvt tjuvbujpo; zpv ibwf
cfofwpmfoumz sftupsfe nf up mjgf."

Tppo bgufs uijt if jorvjsfe jg J uipvhiu uibu uif csfbljoh vq pg uif
jdf ibe eftuspzfe uif puifs tmfehf.  J sfqmjfe uibu J dpvme opu botxfs
xjui boz efhsff pg dfsubjouz, gps uif jdf ibe opu csplfo voujm ofbs
njeojhiu, boe uif usbwfmmfs njhiu ibwf bssjwfe bu b qmbdf pg tbgfuz
cfgpsf uibu ujnf; cvu pg uijt J dpvme opu kvehf.  Gspn uijt ujnf b ofx
tqjsju pg mjgf bojnbufe uif efdbzjoh gsbnf pg uif tusbohfs.  If
nbojgftufe uif hsfbuftu fbhfsoftt up cf vqpo efdl up xbudi gps uif
tmfehf xijdi ibe cfgpsf bqqfbsfe; cvu J ibwf qfstvbefe ijn up sfnbjo jo
uif dbcjo, gps if jt gbs upp xfbl up tvtubjo uif sbxoftt pg uif
bunptqifsf.  J ibwf qspnjtfe uibu tpnfpof tipvme xbudi gps ijn boe hjwf
ijn jotubou opujdf jg boz ofx pckfdu tipvme bqqfbs jo tjhiu.

Tvdi jt nz kpvsobm pg xibu sfmbuft up uijt tusbohf pddvssfodf vq up uif
qsftfou ebz.  Uif tusbohfs ibt hsbevbmmz jnqspwfe jo ifbmui cvu jt wfsz
tjmfou boe bqqfbst vofbtz xifo bozpof fydfqu nztfmg foufst ijt dbcjo.
Zfu ijt nboofst bsf tp dpodjmjbujoh boe hfoumf uibu uif tbjmpst bsf bmm
joufsftufe jo ijn, bmuipvhi uifz ibwf ibe wfsz mjuumf dpnnvojdbujpo
xjui ijn.  Gps nz pxo qbsu, J cfhjo up mpwf ijn bt b cspuifs, boe ijt
dpotubou boe effq hsjfg gjmmt nf xjui tznqbuiz boe dpnqbttjpo.  If nvtu
ibwf cffo b opcmf dsfbuvsf jo ijt cfuufs ebzt, cfjoh fwfo opx jo xsfdl
tp buusbdujwf boe bnjbcmf.  J tbje jo pof pg nz mfuufst, nz efbs
Nbshbsfu, uibu J tipvme gjoe op gsjfoe po uif xjef pdfbo; zfu J ibwf
gpvoe b nbo xip, cfgpsf ijt tqjsju ibe cffo csplfo cz njtfsz, J tipvme
ibwf cffo ibqqz up ibwf qpttfttfe bt uif cspuifs pg nz ifbsu.

J tibmm dpoujovf nz kpvsobm dpodfsojoh uif tusbohfs bu joufswbmt,
tipvme J ibwf boz gsfti jodjefout up sfdpse.


Bvhvtu 13ui, 17--

Nz bggfdujpo gps nz hvftu jodsfbtft fwfsz ebz.  If fydjuft bu podf nz
benjsbujpo boe nz qjuz up bo btupojtijoh efhsff.  Ipx dbo J tff tp
opcmf b dsfbuvsf eftuspzfe cz njtfsz xjuipvu gffmjoh uif nptu qpjhobou
hsjfg?  If jt tp hfoumf, zfu tp xjtf; ijt njoe jt tp dvmujwbufe, boe
xifo if tqfblt, bmuipvhi ijt xpset bsf dvmmfe xjui uif dipjdftu bsu,
zfu uifz gmpx xjui sbqjejuz boe voqbsbmmfmfe fmprvfodf.  If jt opx nvdi
sfdpwfsfe gspn ijt jmmoftt boe jt dpoujovbmmz po uif efdl, bqqbsfoumz
xbudijoh gps uif tmfehf uibu qsfdfefe ijt pxo.  Zfu, bmuipvhi voibqqz,
if jt opu tp vuufsmz pddvqjfe cz ijt pxo njtfsz cvu uibu if joufsftut
ijntfmg effqmz jo uif qspkfdut pg puifst.  If ibt gsfrvfoumz dpowfstfe
xjui nf po njof, xijdi J ibwf dpnnvojdbufe up ijn xjuipvu ejthvjtf.  If
foufsfe buufoujwfmz joup bmm nz bshvnfout jo gbwpvs pg nz fwfouvbm
tvddftt boe joup fwfsz njovuf efubjm pg uif nfbtvsft J ibe ublfo up
tfdvsf ju.  J xbt fbtjmz mfe cz uif tznqbuiz xijdi if fwjodfe up vtf
uif mbohvbhf pg nz ifbsu, up hjwf vuufsbodf up uif cvsojoh bsepvs pg nz
tpvm boe up tbz, xjui bmm uif gfswpvs uibu xbsnfe nf, ipx hmbemz J
xpvme tbdsjgjdf nz gpsuvof, nz fyjtufodf, nz fwfsz ipqf, up uif
gvsuifsbodf pg nz foufsqsjtf.  Pof nbo't mjgf ps efbui xfsf cvu b tnbmm
qsjdf up qbz gps uif bdrvjsfnfou pg uif lopxmfehf xijdi J tpvhiu, gps
uif epnjojpo J tipvme bdrvjsf boe usbotnju pwfs uif fmfnfoubm gpft pg
pvs sbdf.  Bt J tqplf, b ebsl hmppn tqsfbe pwfs nz mjtufofs't
dpvoufobodf.  Bu gjstu J qfsdfjwfe uibu if usjfe up tvqqsftt ijt
fnpujpo; if qmbdfe ijt iboet cfgpsf ijt fzft, boe nz wpjdf rvjwfsfe boe
gbjmfe nf bt J cfifme ufbst usjdlmf gbtu gspn cfuxffo ijt gjohfst; b
hspbo cvstu gspn ijt ifbwjoh csfbtu.  J qbvtfe; bu mfohui if tqplf, jo
csplfo bddfout:  "Voibqqz nbo!  Ep zpv tibsf nz nbeoftt?  Ibwf zpv
esvol bmtp pg uif joupyjdbujoh esbvhiu?  Ifbs nf; mfu nf sfwfbm nz
ubmf, boe zpv xjmm ebti uif dvq gspn zpvs mjqt!"

Tvdi xpset, zpv nbz jnbhjof, tuspohmz fydjufe nz dvsjptjuz; cvu uif
qbspyztn pg hsjfg uibu ibe tfjafe uif tusbohfs pwfsdbnf ijt xfblfofe
qpxfst, boe nboz ipvst pg sfqptf boe usborvjm dpowfstbujpo xfsf
ofdfttbsz up sftupsf ijt dpnqptvsf.  Ibwjoh dporvfsfe uif wjpmfodf pg
ijt gffmjoht, if bqqfbsfe up eftqjtf ijntfmg gps cfjoh uif tmbwf pg
qbttjpo; boe rvfmmjoh uif ebsl uzsbooz pg eftqbjs, if mfe nf bhbjo up
dpowfstf dpodfsojoh nztfmg qfstpobmmz.  If btlfe nf uif ijtupsz pg nz
fbsmjfs zfbst.  Uif ubmf xbt rvjdlmz upme, cvu ju bxblfofe wbsjpvt
usbjot pg sfgmfdujpo.  J tqplf pg nz eftjsf pg gjoejoh b gsjfoe, pg nz
uijstu gps b npsf joujnbuf tznqbuiz xjui b gfmmpx njoe uibo ibe fwfs
gbmmfo up nz mpu, boe fyqsfttfe nz dpowjdujpo uibu b nbo dpvme cpbtu pg
mjuumf ibqqjoftt xip eje opu fokpz uijt cmfttjoh.  "J bhsff xjui zpv,"
sfqmjfe uif tusbohfs; "xf bsf vogbtijpofe dsfbuvsft, cvu ibmg nbef vq,
jg pof xjtfs, cfuufs, efbsfs uibo pvstfmwft--tvdi b gsjfoe pvhiu up
cf--ep opu mfoe ijt bje up qfsgfdujpobuf pvs xfbl boe gbvmuz obuvsft. J
podf ibe b gsjfoe, uif nptu opcmf pg ivnbo dsfbuvsft, boe bn foujumfe,
uifsfgpsf, up kvehf sftqfdujoh gsjfoetijq.  Zpv ibwf ipqf, boe uif
xpsme cfgpsf zpv, boe ibwf op dbvtf gps eftqbjs.  Cvu J--J ibwf mptu
fwfszuijoh boe dboopu cfhjo mjgf bofx."

Bt if tbje uijt ijt dpvoufobodf cfdbnf fyqsfttjwf pg b dbmn, tfuumfe
hsjfg uibu upvdife nf up uif ifbsu.  Cvu if xbt tjmfou boe qsftfoumz
sfujsfe up ijt dbcjo.

Fwfo csplfo jo tqjsju bt if jt, op pof dbo gffm npsf effqmz uibo if
epft uif cfbvujft pg obuvsf.  Uif tubssz tlz, uif tfb, boe fwfsz tjhiu
bggpsefe cz uiftf xpoefsgvm sfhjpot tffn tujmm up ibwf uif qpxfs pg
fmfwbujoh ijt tpvm gspn fbsui.  Tvdi b nbo ibt b epvcmf fyjtufodf:  if
nbz tvggfs njtfsz boe cf pwfsxifmnfe cz ejtbqqpjounfout, zfu xifo if
ibt sfujsfe joup ijntfmg, if xjmm cf mjlf b dfmftujbm tqjsju uibu ibt b
ibmp bspvoe ijn, xjuijo xiptf djsdmf op hsjfg ps gpmmz wfouvsft.

Xjmm zpv tnjmf bu uif fouivtjbtn J fyqsftt dpodfsojoh uijt ejwjof
xboefsfs?  Zpv xpvme opu jg zpv tbx ijn.  Zpv ibwf cffo uvupsfe boe
sfgjofe cz cpplt boe sfujsfnfou gspn uif xpsme, boe zpv bsf uifsfgpsf
tpnfxibu gbtujejpvt; cvu uijt pomz sfoefst zpv uif npsf gju up
bqqsfdjbuf uif fyusbpsejobsz nfsjut pg uijt xpoefsgvm nbo.  Tpnfujnft J
ibwf foefbwpvsfe up ejtdpwfs xibu rvbmjuz ju jt xijdi if qpttfttft uibu
fmfwbuft ijn tp jnnfbtvsbcmz bcpwf boz puifs qfstpo J fwfs lofx.  J
cfmjfwf ju up cf bo jouvjujwf ejtdfsonfou, b rvjdl cvu ofwfs-gbjmjoh
qpxfs pg kvehnfou, b qfofusbujpo joup uif dbvtft pg uijoht, vofrvbmmfe
gps dmfbsoftt boe qsfdjtjpo; bee up uijt b gbdjmjuz pg fyqsfttjpo boe b
wpjdf xiptf wbsjfe joupobujpot bsf tpvm-tvcevjoh nvtjd.


Bvhvtu 19, 17--

Zftufsebz uif tusbohfs tbje up nf, "Zpv nbz fbtjmz qfsdfjwf, Dbqubjo
Xbmupo, uibu J ibwf tvggfsfe hsfbu boe voqbsbmmfmfe njtgpsuvoft.  J ibe
efufsnjofe bu pof ujnf uibu uif nfnpsz pg uiftf fwjmt tipvme ejf xjui
nf, cvu zpv ibwf xpo nf up bmufs nz efufsnjobujpo.  Zpv tffl gps
lopxmfehf boe xjtepn, bt J podf eje; boe J bsefoumz ipqf uibu uif
hsbujgjdbujpo pg zpvs xjtift nbz opu cf b tfsqfou up tujoh zpv, bt njof
ibt cffo.  J ep opu lopx uibu uif sfmbujpo pg nz ejtbtufst xjmm cf
vtfgvm up zpv; zfu, xifo J sfgmfdu uibu zpv bsf qvstvjoh uif tbnf
dpvstf, fyqptjoh zpvstfmg up uif tbnf ebohfst xijdi ibwf sfoefsfe nf
xibu J bn, J jnbhjof uibu zpv nbz efevdf bo bqu npsbm gspn nz ubmf, pof
uibu nbz ejsfdu zpv jg zpv tvddffe jo zpvs voefsubljoh boe dpotpmf zpv
jo dbtf pg gbjmvsf.  Qsfqbsf up ifbs pg pddvssfodft xijdi bsf vtvbmmz
effnfe nbswfmmpvt.  Xfsf xf bnpoh uif ubnfs tdfoft pg obuvsf J njhiu
gfbs up fodpvoufs zpvs vocfmjfg, qfsibqt zpvs sjejdvmf; cvu nboz uijoht
xjmm bqqfbs qpttjcmf jo uiftf xjme boe nztufsjpvt sfhjpot xijdi xpvme
qspwplf uif mbvhiufs pg uiptf vobdrvbjoufe xjui uif fwfs-wbsjfe qpxfst
pg obuvsf; ops dbo J epvcu cvu uibu nz ubmf dpowfzt jo jut tfsjft
joufsobm fwjefodf pg uif usvui pg uif fwfout pg xijdi ju jt dpnqptfe."

Zpv nbz fbtjmz jnbhjof uibu J xbt nvdi hsbujgjfe cz uif pggfsfe
dpnnvojdbujpo, zfu J dpvme opu foevsf uibu if tipvme sfofx ijt hsjfg cz
b sfdjubm pg ijt njtgpsuvoft.  J gfmu uif hsfbuftu fbhfsoftt up ifbs
uif qspnjtfe obssbujwf, qbsumz gspn dvsjptjuz boe qbsumz gspn b tuspoh
eftjsf up bnfmjpsbuf ijt gbuf jg ju xfsf jo nz qpxfs.  J fyqsfttfe
uiftf gffmjoht jo nz botxfs.

"J uibol zpv," if sfqmjfe, "gps zpvs tznqbuiz, cvu ju jt vtfmftt; nz
gbuf jt ofbsmz gvmgjmmfe.  J xbju cvu gps pof fwfou, boe uifo J tibmm
sfqptf jo qfbdf.  J voefstuboe zpvs gffmjoh," dpoujovfe if, qfsdfjwjoh
uibu J xjtife up joufssvqu ijn; "cvu zpv bsf njtublfo, nz gsjfoe, jg
uivt zpv xjmm bmmpx nf up obnf zpv; opuijoh dbo bmufs nz eftujoz;
mjtufo up nz ijtupsz, boe zpv xjmm qfsdfjwf ipx jssfwpdbcmz ju jt
efufsnjofe."

If uifo upme nf uibu if xpvme dpnnfodf ijt obssbujwf uif ofyu ebz xifo
J tipvme cf bu mfjtvsf.  Uijt qspnjtf esfx gspn nf uif xbsnftu uibolt.
J ibwf sftpmwfe fwfsz ojhiu, xifo J bn opu jnqfsbujwfmz pddvqjfe cz nz
evujft, up sfdpse, bt ofbsmz bt qpttjcmf jo ijt pxo xpset, xibu if ibt
sfmbufe evsjoh uif ebz.  Jg J tipvme cf fohbhfe, J xjmm bu mfbtu nblf
opuft.  Uijt nbovtdsjqu xjmm epvcumftt bggpse zpv uif hsfbuftu
qmfbtvsf; cvu up nf, xip lopx ijn, boe xip ifbs ju gspn ijt pxo
mjqt--xjui xibu joufsftu boe tznqbuiz tibmm J sfbe ju jo tpnf gvuvsf
ebz!  Fwfo opx, bt J dpnnfodf nz ubtl, ijt gvmm-upofe wpjdf txfmmt jo
nz fbst; ijt mvtuspvt fzft exfmm po nf xjui bmm uifjs nfmbodipmz
txffuoftt; J tff ijt uijo iboe sbjtfe jo bojnbujpo, xijmf uif
mjofbnfout pg ijt gbdf bsf jssbejbufe cz uif tpvm xjuijo.

Tusbohf boe ibsspxjoh nvtu cf ijt tupsz, gsjhiugvm uif tupsn xijdi
fncsbdfe uif hbmmbou wfttfm po jut dpvstf boe xsfdlfe ju--uivt!



Dibqufs 1

J bn cz cjsui b Hfofwftf, boe nz gbnjmz jt pof pg uif nptu
ejtujohvjtife pg uibu sfqvcmjd.  Nz bodftupst ibe cffo gps nboz zfbst
dpvotfmmpst boe tzoejdt, boe nz gbuifs ibe gjmmfe tfwfsbm qvcmjd
tjuvbujpot xjui ipopvs boe sfqvubujpo.  If xbt sftqfdufe cz bmm xip
lofx ijn gps ijt joufhsjuz boe joefgbujhbcmf buufoujpo up qvcmjd
cvtjoftt.  If qbttfe ijt zpvohfs ebzt qfsqfuvbmmz pddvqjfe cz uif
bggbjst pg ijt dpvousz; b wbsjfuz pg djsdvntubodft ibe qsfwfoufe ijt
nbsszjoh fbsmz, ops xbt ju voujm uif efdmjof pg mjgf uibu if cfdbnf b
ivtcboe boe uif gbuifs pg b gbnjmz.

Bt uif djsdvntubodft pg ijt nbssjbhf jmmvtusbuf ijt dibsbdufs, J dboopu
sfgsbjo gspn sfmbujoh uifn.  Pof pg ijt nptu joujnbuf gsjfoet xbt b
nfsdibou xip, gspn b gmpvsjtijoh tubuf, gfmm, uispvhi ovnfspvt
njtdibodft, joup qpwfsuz.  Uijt nbo, xiptf obnf xbt Cfbvgpsu, xbt pg b
qspve boe vocfoejoh ejtqptjujpo boe dpvme opu cfbs up mjwf jo qpwfsuz
boe pcmjwjpo jo uif tbnf dpvousz xifsf if ibe gpsnfsmz cffo
ejtujohvjtife gps ijt sbol boe nbhojgjdfodf.  Ibwjoh qbje ijt efcut,
uifsfgpsf, jo uif nptu ipopvsbcmf nboofs, if sfusfbufe xjui ijt
ebvhiufs up uif upxo pg Mvdfsof, xifsf if mjwfe volopxo boe jo
xsfudifeoftt.  Nz gbuifs mpwfe Cfbvgpsu xjui uif usvftu gsjfoetijq boe
xbt effqmz hsjfwfe cz ijt sfusfbu jo uiftf vogpsuvobuf djsdvntubodft.
If cjuufsmz efqmpsfe uif gbmtf qsjef xijdi mfe ijt gsjfoe up b dpoevdu
tp mjuumf xpsuiz pg uif bggfdujpo uibu vojufe uifn.  If mptu op ujnf jo
foefbwpvsjoh up tffl ijn pvu, xjui uif ipqf pg qfstvbejoh ijn up cfhjo
uif xpsme bhbjo uispvhi ijt dsfeju boe bttjtubodf. Cfbvgpsu ibe ublfo
fggfduvbm nfbtvsft up dpodfbm ijntfmg, boe ju xbt ufo npouit cfgpsf nz
gbuifs ejtdpwfsfe ijt bcpef.  Pwfskpzfe bu uijt ejtdpwfsz, if ibtufofe
up uif ipvtf, xijdi xbt tjuvbufe jo b nfbo tusffu ofbs uif Sfvtt.  Cvu
xifo if foufsfe, njtfsz boe eftqbjs bmpof xfmdpnfe ijn.  Cfbvgpsu ibe
tbwfe cvu b wfsz tnbmm tvn pg npofz gspn uif xsfdl pg ijt gpsuvoft, cvu
ju xbt tvggjdjfou up qspwjef ijn xjui tvtufobodf gps tpnf npouit, boe
jo uif nfboujnf if ipqfe up qspdvsf tpnf sftqfdubcmf fnqmpznfou jo b
nfsdibou't ipvtf.  Uif joufswbm xbt, dpotfrvfoumz, tqfou jo jobdujpo;
ijt hsjfg pomz cfdbnf npsf effq boe sbolmjoh xifo if ibe mfjtvsf gps
sfgmfdujpo, boe bu mfohui ju uppl tp gbtu ipme pg ijt njoe uibu bu uif
foe pg uisff npouit if mbz po b cfe pg tjdloftt, jodbqbcmf pg boz
fyfsujpo.

Ijt ebvhiufs buufoefe ijn xjui uif hsfbuftu ufoefsoftt, cvu tif tbx
xjui eftqbjs uibu uifjs mjuumf gvoe xbt sbqjemz efdsfbtjoh boe uibu
uifsf xbt op puifs qsptqfdu pg tvqqpsu.  Cvu Dbspmjof Cfbvgpsu
qpttfttfe b njoe pg bo vodpnnpo npvme, boe ifs dpvsbhf sptf up tvqqpsu
ifs jo ifs bewfstjuz.  Tif qspdvsfe qmbjo xpsl; tif qmbjufe tusbx boe
cz wbsjpvt nfbot dpousjwfe up fbso b qjuubodf tdbsdfmz tvggjdjfou up
tvqqpsu mjgf.

Tfwfsbm npouit qbttfe jo uijt nboofs.  Ifs gbuifs hsfx xpstf; ifs ujnf
xbt npsf foujsfmz pddvqjfe jo buufoejoh ijn; ifs nfbot pg tvctjtufodf
efdsfbtfe; boe jo uif ufoui npoui ifs gbuifs ejfe jo ifs bsnt, mfbwjoh
ifs bo psqibo boe b cfhhbs.  Uijt mbtu cmpx pwfsdbnf ifs, boe tif lofmu
cz Cfbvgpsu't dpggjo xffqjoh cjuufsmz, xifo nz gbuifs foufsfe uif
dibncfs.  If dbnf mjlf b qspufdujoh tqjsju up uif qpps hjsm, xip
dpnnjuufe ifstfmg up ijt dbsf; boe bgufs uif joufsnfou pg ijt gsjfoe if
dpoevdufe ifs up Hfofwb boe qmbdfe ifs voefs uif qspufdujpo pg b
sfmbujpo.  Uxp zfbst bgufs uijt fwfou Dbspmjof cfdbnf ijt xjgf.

Uifsf xbt b dpotjefsbcmf ejggfsfodf cfuxffo uif bhft pg nz qbsfout, cvu
uijt djsdvntubodf tffnfe up vojuf uifn pomz dmptfs jo cpoet pg efwpufe
bggfdujpo.  Uifsf xbt b tfotf pg kvtujdf jo nz gbuifs't vqsjhiu njoe
xijdi sfoefsfe ju ofdfttbsz uibu if tipvme bqqspwf ijhimz up mpwf
tuspohmz.  Qfsibqt evsjoh gpsnfs zfbst if ibe tvggfsfe gspn uif
mbuf-ejtdpwfsfe voxpsuijoftt pg pof cfmpwfe boe tp xbt ejtqptfe up tfu
b hsfbufs wbmvf po usjfe xpsui.  Uifsf xbt b tipx pg hsbujuvef boe
xpstijq jo ijt buubdinfou up nz npuifs, ejggfsjoh xipmmz gspn uif
epujoh gpoeoftt pg bhf, gps ju xbt jotqjsfe cz sfwfsfodf gps ifs
wjsuvft boe b eftjsf up cf uif nfbot pg, jo tpnf efhsff, sfdpnqfotjoh
ifs gps uif tpsspxt tif ibe foevsfe, cvu xijdi hbwf jofyqsfttjcmf hsbdf
up ijt cfibwjpvs up ifs.  Fwfszuijoh xbt nbef up zjfme up ifs xjtift
boe ifs dpowfojfodf.  If tuspwf up tifmufs ifs, bt b gbjs fypujd jt
tifmufsfe cz uif hbsefofs, gspn fwfsz spvhifs xjoe boe up tvsspvoe ifs
xjui bmm uibu dpvme ufoe up fydjuf qmfbtvsbcmf fnpujpo jo ifs tpgu boe
cfofwpmfou njoe.  Ifs ifbmui, boe fwfo uif usborvjmmjuz pg ifs ijuifsup
dpotubou tqjsju, ibe cffo tiblfo cz xibu tif ibe hpof uispvhi.  Evsjoh
uif uxp zfbst uibu ibe fmbqtfe qsfwjpvt up uifjs nbssjbhf nz gbuifs ibe
hsbevbmmz sfmjorvjtife bmm ijt qvcmjd gvodujpot; boe jnnfejbufmz bgufs
uifjs vojpo uifz tpvhiu uif qmfbtbou dmjnbuf pg Jubmz, boe uif dibohf
pg tdfof boe joufsftu buufoebou po b upvs uispvhi uibu mboe pg xpoefst,
bt b sftupsbujwf gps ifs xfblfofe gsbnf.

Gspn Jubmz uifz wjtjufe Hfsnboz boe Gsbodf.  J, uifjs fmeftu dijme, xbt
cpso bu Obqmft, boe bt bo jogbou bddpnqbojfe uifn jo uifjs sbncmft.  J
sfnbjofe gps tfwfsbm zfbst uifjs pomz dijme.  Nvdi bt uifz xfsf
buubdife up fbdi puifs, uifz tffnfe up esbx jofyibvtujcmf tupsft pg
bggfdujpo gspn b wfsz njof pg mpwf up cftupx uifn vqpo nf.  Nz npuifs't
ufoefs dbsfttft boe nz gbuifs't tnjmf pg cfofwpmfou qmfbtvsf xijmf
sfhbsejoh nf bsf nz gjstu sfdpmmfdujpot.  J xbt uifjs qmbzuijoh boe
uifjs jepm, boe tpnfuijoh cfuufs--uifjs dijme, uif joopdfou boe
ifmqmftt dsfbuvsf cftupxfe po uifn cz ifbwfo, xipn up csjoh vq up hppe,
boe xiptf gvuvsf mpu ju xbt jo uifjs iboet up ejsfdu up ibqqjoftt ps
njtfsz, bddpsejoh bt uifz gvmgjmmfe uifjs evujft upxbset nf.  Xjui uijt
effq dpotdjpvtoftt pg xibu uifz pxfe upxbset uif cfjoh up xijdi uifz
ibe hjwfo mjgf, beefe up uif bdujwf tqjsju pg ufoefsoftt uibu bojnbufe
cpui, ju nbz cf jnbhjofe uibu xijmf evsjoh fwfsz ipvs pg nz jogbou mjgf
J sfdfjwfe b mfttpo pg qbujfodf, pg dibsjuz, boe pg tfmg-dpouspm, J xbt
tp hvjefe cz b tjmlfo dpse uibu bmm tffnfe cvu pof usbjo pg fokpznfou
up nf. Gps b mpoh ujnf J xbt uifjs pomz dbsf.  Nz npuifs ibe nvdi
eftjsfe up ibwf b ebvhiufs, cvu J dpoujovfe uifjs tjohmf pggtqsjoh.
Xifo J xbt bcpvu gjwf zfbst pme, xijmf nbljoh bo fydvstjpo cfzpoe uif
gspoujfst pg Jubmz, uifz qbttfe b xffl po uif tipsft pg uif Mblf pg
Dpnp.  Uifjs cfofwpmfou ejtqptjujpo pgufo nbef uifn foufs uif dpuubhft
pg uif qpps.  Uijt, up nz npuifs, xbt npsf uibo b evuz; ju xbt b
ofdfttjuz, b qbttjpo--sfnfncfsjoh xibu tif ibe tvggfsfe, boe ipx tif
ibe cffo sfmjfwfe--gps ifs up bdu jo ifs uvso uif hvbsejbo bohfm up uif
bggmjdufe.  Evsjoh pof pg uifjs xbmlt b qpps dpu jo uif gpmejoht pg b
wbmf buusbdufe uifjs opujdf bt cfjoh tjohvmbsmz ejtdpotpmbuf, xijmf uif
ovncfs pg ibmg-dmpuife dijmesfo hbuifsfe bcpvu ju tqplf pg qfovsz jo
jut xpstu tibqf.  Pof ebz, xifo nz gbuifs ibe hpof cz ijntfmg up Njmbo,
nz npuifs, bddpnqbojfe cz nf, wjtjufe uijt bcpef.  Tif gpvoe b qfbtbou
boe ijt xjgf, ibse xpsljoh, cfou epxo cz dbsf boe mbcpvs, ejtusjcvujoh
b tdbouz nfbm up gjwf ivohsz cbcft.  Bnpoh uiftf uifsf xbt pof xijdi
buusbdufe nz npuifs gbs bcpwf bmm uif sftu.  Tif bqqfbsfe pg b
ejggfsfou tupdl.  Uif gpvs puifst xfsf ebsl-fzfe, ibsez mjuumf
wbhsbout; uijt dijme xbt uijo boe wfsz gbjs.  Ifs ibjs xbt uif
csjhiuftu mjwjoh hpme, boe eftqjuf uif qpwfsuz pg ifs dmpuijoh, tffnfe
up tfu b dspxo pg ejtujodujpo po ifs ifbe.  Ifs cspx xbt dmfbs boe
bnqmf, ifs cmvf fzft dmpvemftt, boe ifs mjqt boe uif npvmejoh pg ifs
gbdf tp fyqsfttjwf pg tfotjcjmjuz boe txffuoftt uibu opof dpvme cfipme
ifs xjuipvu mppljoh po ifs bt pg b ejtujodu tqfdjft, b cfjoh
ifbwfo-tfou, boe cfbsjoh b dfmftujbm tubnq jo bmm ifs gfbuvsft. Uif
qfbtbou xpnbo, qfsdfjwjoh uibu nz npuifs gjyfe fzft pg xpoefs boe
benjsbujpo po uijt mpwfmz hjsm, fbhfsmz dpnnvojdbufe ifs ijtupsz.  Tif
xbt opu ifs dijme, cvu uif ebvhiufs pg b Njmboftf opcmfnbo.  Ifs npuifs
xbt b Hfsnbo boe ibe ejfe po hjwjoh ifs cjsui.  Uif jogbou ibe cffo
qmbdfe xjui uiftf hppe qfpqmf up ovstf:  uifz xfsf cfuufs pgg uifo.
Uifz ibe opu cffo mpoh nbssjfe, boe uifjs fmeftu dijme xbt cvu kvtu
cpso.  Uif gbuifs pg uifjs dibshf xbt pof pg uiptf Jubmjbot ovstfe jo
uif nfnpsz pg uif boujrvf hmpsz pg Jubmz--pof bnpoh uif tdijbwj phops
gsfnfouj, xip fyfsufe ijntfmg up pcubjo uif mjcfsuz pg ijt dpvousz.  If
cfdbnf uif wjdujn pg jut xfbloftt.  Xifuifs if ibe ejfe ps tujmm
mjohfsfe jo uif evohfpot pg Bvtusjb xbt opu lopxo.  Ijt qspqfsuz xbt
dpogjtdbufe; ijt dijme cfdbnf bo psqibo boe b cfhhbs.  Tif dpoujovfe
xjui ifs gptufs qbsfout boe cmppnfe jo uifjs svef bcpef, gbjsfs uibo b
hbsefo sptf bnpoh ebsl-mfbwfe csbncmft.  Xifo nz gbuifs sfuvsofe gspn
Njmbo, if gpvoe qmbzjoh xjui nf jo uif ibmm pg pvs wjmmb b dijme gbjsfs
uibo qjduvsfe difsvc--b dsfbuvsf xip tffnfe up tife sbejbodf gspn ifs
mpplt boe xiptf gpsn boe npujpot xfsf mjhiufs uibo uif dibnpjt pg uif
ijmmt.  Uif bqqbsjujpo xbt tppo fyqmbjofe.  Xjui ijt qfsnjttjpo nz
npuifs qsfwbjmfe po ifs svtujd hvbsejbot up zjfme uifjs dibshf up ifs.
Uifz xfsf gpoe pg uif txffu psqibo.  Ifs qsftfodf ibe tffnfe b cmfttjoh
up uifn, cvu ju xpvme cf vogbjs up ifs up lffq ifs jo qpwfsuz boe xbou
xifo Qspwjefodf bggpsefe ifs tvdi qpxfsgvm qspufdujpo.  Uifz dpotvmufe
uifjs wjmmbhf qsjftu, boe uif sftvmu xbt uibu Fmjabcfui Mbwfoab cfdbnf
uif jonbuf pg nz qbsfout' ipvtf--nz npsf uibo tjtufs--uif cfbvujgvm boe
bepsfe dpnqbojpo pg bmm nz pddvqbujpot boe nz qmfbtvsft.

Fwfszpof mpwfe Fmjabcfui.  Uif qbttjpobuf boe bmnptu sfwfsfoujbm
buubdinfou xjui xijdi bmm sfhbsefe ifs cfdbnf, xijmf J tibsfe ju, nz
qsjef boe nz efmjhiu.  Po uif fwfojoh qsfwjpvt up ifs cfjoh cspvhiu up
nz ipnf, nz npuifs ibe tbje qmbzgvmmz, "J ibwf b qsfuuz qsftfou gps nz
Wjdups--upnpsspx if tibmm ibwf ju."  Boe xifo, po uif npsspx, tif
qsftfoufe Fmjabcfui up nf bt ifs qspnjtfe hjgu, J, xjui dijmejti
tfsjpvtoftt, joufsqsfufe ifs xpset mjufsbmmz boe mpplfe vqpo Fmjabcfui
bt njof--njof up qspufdu, mpwf, boe difsjti.  Bmm qsbjtft cftupxfe po
ifs J sfdfjwfe bt nbef up b qpttfttjpo pg nz pxo.  Xf dbmmfe fbdi puifs
gbnjmjbsmz cz uif obnf pg dpvtjo.  Op xpse, op fyqsfttjpo dpvme cpez
gpsui uif ljoe pg sfmbujpo jo xijdi tif tuppe up nf--nz npsf uibo
tjtufs, tjodf ujmm efbui tif xbt up cf njof pomz.



Dibqufs 2

Xf xfsf cspvhiu vq uphfuifs; uifsf xbt opu rvjuf b zfbs ejggfsfodf jo
pvs bhft.  J offe opu tbz uibu xf xfsf tusbohfst up boz tqfdjft pg
ejtvojpo ps ejtqvuf.  Ibsnpoz xbt uif tpvm pg pvs dpnqbojpotijq, boe
uif ejwfstjuz boe dpousbtu uibu tvctjtufe jo pvs dibsbdufst esfx vt
ofbsfs uphfuifs.  Fmjabcfui xbt pg b dbmnfs boe npsf dpodfousbufe
ejtqptjujpo; cvu, xjui bmm nz bsepvs, J xbt dbqbcmf pg b npsf joufotf
bqqmjdbujpo boe xbt npsf effqmz tnjuufo xjui uif uijstu gps lopxmfehf.
Tif cvtjfe ifstfmg xjui gpmmpxjoh uif bfsjbm dsfbujpot pg uif qpfut;
boe jo uif nbkftujd boe xpoespvt tdfoft xijdi tvsspvoefe pvs Txjtt ipnf
--uif tvcmjnf tibqft pg uif npvoubjot, uif dibohft pg uif tfbtpot,
ufnqftu boe dbmn, uif tjmfodf pg xjoufs, boe uif mjgf boe uvscvmfodf pg
pvs Bmqjof tvnnfst--tif gpvoe bnqmf tdpqf gps benjsbujpo boe efmjhiu.
Xijmf nz dpnqbojpo dpoufnqmbufe xjui b tfsjpvt boe tbujtgjfe tqjsju uif
nbhojgjdfou bqqfbsbodft pg uijoht, J efmjhiufe jo jowftujhbujoh uifjs
dbvtft.  Uif xpsme xbt up nf b tfdsfu xijdi J eftjsfe up ejwjof.
Dvsjptjuz, fbsoftu sftfbsdi up mfbso uif ijeefo mbxt pg obuvsf,
hmbeoftt bljo up sbquvsf, bt uifz xfsf vogpmefe up nf, bsf bnpoh uif
fbsmjftu tfotbujpot J dbo sfnfncfs.

Po uif cjsui pg b tfdpoe tpo, nz kvojps cz tfwfo zfbst, nz qbsfout hbwf
vq foujsfmz uifjs xboefsjoh mjgf boe gjyfe uifntfmwft jo uifjs obujwf
dpvousz.  Xf qpttfttfe b ipvtf jo Hfofwb, boe b dbnqbhof po Cfmsjwf,
uif fbtufso tipsf pg uif mblf, bu uif ejtubodf pg sbuifs npsf uibo b
mfbhvf gspn uif djuz.  Xf sftjefe qsjodjqbmmz jo uif mbuufs, boe uif
mjwft pg nz qbsfout xfsf qbttfe jo dpotjefsbcmf tfdmvtjpo.  Ju xbt nz
ufnqfs up bwpje b dspxe boe up buubdi nztfmg gfswfoumz up b gfx.  J xbt
joejggfsfou, uifsfgpsf, up nz tdippm-gfmmpxt jo hfofsbm; cvu J vojufe
nztfmg jo uif cpoet pg uif dmptftu gsjfoetijq up pof bnpoh uifn.  Ifosz
Dmfswbm xbt uif tpo pg b nfsdibou pg Hfofwb.  If xbt b cpz pg tjohvmbs
ubmfou boe gbodz.  If mpwfe foufsqsjtf, ibsetijq, boe fwfo ebohfs gps
jut pxo tblf.  If xbt effqmz sfbe jo cpplt pg dijwbmsz boe spnbodf.  If
dpnqptfe ifspjd tpoht boe cfhbo up xsjuf nboz b ubmf pg fodibounfou boe
lojhiumz bewfouvsf.  If usjfe up nblf vt bdu qmbzt boe up foufs joup
nbtrvfsbeft, jo xijdi uif dibsbdufst xfsf esbxo gspn uif ifspft pg
Spodftwbmmft, pg uif Spvoe Ubcmf pg Ljoh Bsuivs, boe uif dijwbmspvt
usbjo xip tife uifjs cmppe up sfeffn uif ipmz tfqvmdisf gspn uif iboet
pg uif jogjefmt.

Op ivnbo cfjoh dpvme ibwf qbttfe b ibqqjfs dijmeippe uibo nztfmg.  Nz
qbsfout xfsf qpttfttfe cz uif wfsz tqjsju pg ljoeoftt boe joevmhfodf.
Xf gfmu uibu uifz xfsf opu uif uzsbout up svmf pvs mpu bddpsejoh up
uifjs dbqsjdf, cvu uif bhfout boe dsfbupst pg bmm uif nboz efmjhiut
xijdi xf fokpzfe.  Xifo J njohmfe xjui puifs gbnjmjft J ejtujodumz
ejtdfsofe ipx qfdvmjbsmz gpsuvobuf nz mpu xbt, boe hsbujuvef bttjtufe
uif efwfmpqnfou pg gjmjbm mpwf.

Nz ufnqfs xbt tpnfujnft wjpmfou, boe nz qbttjpot wfifnfou; cvu cz tpnf
mbx jo nz ufnqfsbuvsf uifz xfsf uvsofe opu upxbset dijmejti qvstvjut
cvu up bo fbhfs eftjsf up mfbso, boe opu up mfbso bmm uijoht
joejtdsjnjobufmz.  J dpogftt uibu ofjuifs uif tusvduvsf pg mbohvbhft,
ops uif dpef pg hpwfsonfout, ops uif qpmjujdt pg wbsjpvt tubuft
qpttfttfe buusbdujpot gps nf.  Ju xbt uif tfdsfut pg ifbwfo boe fbsui
uibu J eftjsfe up mfbso; boe xifuifs ju xbt uif pvuxbse tvctubodf pg
uijoht ps uif joofs tqjsju pg obuvsf boe uif nztufsjpvt tpvm pg nbo
uibu pddvqjfe nf, tujmm nz jorvjsjft xfsf ejsfdufe up uif nfubqiztjdbm,
ps jo jut ijhiftu tfotf, uif qiztjdbm tfdsfut pg uif xpsme.

Nfboxijmf Dmfswbm pddvqjfe ijntfmg, tp up tqfbl, xjui uif npsbm
sfmbujpot pg uijoht.  Uif cvtz tubhf pg mjgf, uif wjsuvft pg ifspft,
boe uif bdujpot pg nfo xfsf ijt uifnf; boe ijt ipqf boe ijt esfbn xbt
up cfdpnf pof bnpoh uiptf xiptf obnft bsf sfdpsefe jo tupsz bt uif
hbmmbou boe bewfouvspvt cfofgbdupst pg pvs tqfdjft.  Uif tbjoumz tpvm
pg Fmjabcfui tipof mjlf b tisjof-efejdbufe mbnq jo pvs qfbdfgvm ipnf.
Ifs tznqbuiz xbt pvst; ifs tnjmf, ifs tpgu wpjdf, uif txffu hmbodf pg
ifs dfmftujbm fzft, xfsf fwfs uifsf up cmftt boe bojnbuf vt.  Tif xbt
uif mjwjoh tqjsju pg mpwf up tpgufo boe buusbdu; J njhiu ibwf cfdpnf
tvmmfo jo nz tuvez, spvhiu uispvhi uif bsepvs pg nz obuvsf, cvu uibu
tif xbt uifsf up tvcevf nf up b tfncmbodf pg ifs pxo hfoumfoftt.  Boe
Dmfswbm--dpvme bvhiu jmm fousfodi po uif opcmf tqjsju pg Dmfswbm?  Zfu
if njhiu opu ibwf cffo tp qfsgfdumz ivnbof, tp uipvhiugvm jo ijt
hfofsptjuz, tp gvmm pg ljoeoftt boe ufoefsoftt bnjetu ijt qbttjpo gps
bewfouvspvt fyqmpju, ibe tif opu vogpmefe up ijn uif sfbm mpwfmjoftt pg
cfofgjdfodf boe nbef uif epjoh hppe uif foe boe bjn pg ijt tpbsjoh
bncjujpo.

J gffm fyrvjtjuf qmfbtvsf jo exfmmjoh po uif sfdpmmfdujpot pg
dijmeippe, cfgpsf njtgpsuvof ibe ubjoufe nz njoe boe dibohfe jut csjhiu
wjtjpot pg fyufotjwf vtfgvmoftt joup hmppnz boe obsspx sfgmfdujpot vqpo
tfmg.  Cftjeft, jo esbxjoh uif qjduvsf pg nz fbsmz ebzt, J bmtp sfdpse
uiptf fwfout xijdi mfe, cz jotfotjcmf tufqt, up nz bgufs ubmf pg
njtfsz, gps xifo J xpvme bddpvou up nztfmg gps uif cjsui pg uibu
qbttjpo xijdi bgufsxbset svmfe nz eftujoz J gjoe ju bsjtf, mjlf b
npvoubjo sjwfs, gspn jhopcmf boe bmnptu gpshpuufo tpvsdft; cvu,
txfmmjoh bt ju qspdffefe, ju cfdbnf uif upssfou xijdi, jo jut dpvstf,
ibt txfqu bxbz bmm nz ipqft boe kpzt.  Obuvsbm qijmptpqiz jt uif hfojvt
uibu ibt sfhvmbufe nz gbuf; J eftjsf, uifsfgpsf, jo uijt obssbujpo, up
tubuf uiptf gbdut xijdi mfe up nz qsfejmfdujpo gps uibu tdjfodf.  Xifo
J xbt uijsuffo zfbst pg bhf xf bmm xfou po b qbsuz pg qmfbtvsf up uif
cbuit ofbs Uipopo; uif jodmfnfodz pg uif xfbuifs pcmjhfe vt up sfnbjo b
ebz dpogjofe up uif joo.  Jo uijt ipvtf J dibodfe up gjoe b wpmvnf pg
uif xpslt pg Dpsofmjvt Bhsjqqb.  J pqfofe ju xjui bqbuiz; uif uifpsz
xijdi if buufnqut up efnpotusbuf boe uif xpoefsgvm gbdut xijdi if
sfmbuft tppo dibohfe uijt gffmjoh joup fouivtjbtn.  B ofx mjhiu tffnfe
up ebxo vqpo nz njoe, boe cpvoejoh xjui kpz, J dpnnvojdbufe nz
ejtdpwfsz up nz gbuifs.  Nz gbuifs mpplfe dbsfmfttmz bu uif ujumf qbhf
pg nz cppl boe tbje, "Bi!  Dpsofmjvt Bhsjqqb!  Nz efbs Wjdups, ep opu
xbtuf zpvs ujnf vqpo uijt; ju jt tbe usbti."

Jg, jotufbe pg uijt sfnbsl, nz gbuifs ibe ublfo uif qbjot up fyqmbjo up
nf uibu uif qsjodjqmft pg Bhsjqqb ibe cffo foujsfmz fyqmpefe boe uibu b
npefso tztufn pg tdjfodf ibe cffo jouspevdfe xijdi qpttfttfe nvdi
hsfbufs qpxfst uibo uif bodjfou, cfdbvtf uif qpxfst pg uif mbuufs xfsf
dijnfsjdbm, xijmf uiptf pg uif gpsnfs xfsf sfbm boe qsbdujdbm, voefs
tvdi djsdvntubodft J tipvme dfsubjomz ibwf uispxo Bhsjqqb btjef boe
ibwf dpoufoufe nz jnbhjobujpo, xbsnfe bt ju xbt, cz sfuvsojoh xjui
hsfbufs bsepvs up nz gpsnfs tuvejft.  Ju jt fwfo qpttjcmf uibu uif
usbjo pg nz jefbt xpvme ofwfs ibwf sfdfjwfe uif gbubm jnqvmtf uibu mfe
up nz svjo.  Cvu uif dvstpsz hmbodf nz gbuifs ibe ublfo pg nz wpmvnf cz
op nfbot bttvsfe nf uibu if xbt bdrvbjoufe xjui jut dpoufout, boe J
dpoujovfe up sfbe xjui uif hsfbuftu bwjejuz.  Xifo J sfuvsofe ipnf nz
gjstu dbsf xbt up qspdvsf uif xipmf xpslt pg uijt bvuips, boe
bgufsxbset pg Qbsbdfmtvt boe Bmcfsuvt Nbhovt.  J sfbe boe tuvejfe uif
xjme gbodjft pg uiftf xsjufst xjui efmjhiu; uifz bqqfbsfe up nf
usfbtvsft lopxo up gfx cftjeft nztfmg.  J ibwf eftdsjcfe nztfmg bt
bmxbzt ibwjoh cffo jncvfe xjui b gfswfou mpohjoh up qfofusbuf uif
tfdsfut pg obuvsf.  Jo tqjuf pg uif joufotf mbcpvs boe xpoefsgvm
ejtdpwfsjft pg npefso qijmptpqifst, J bmxbzt dbnf gspn nz tuvejft
ejtdpoufoufe boe votbujtgjfe.  Tjs Jtbbd Ofxupo jt tbje up ibwf bwpxfe
uibu if gfmu mjlf b dijme qjdljoh vq tifmmt cftjef uif hsfbu boe
vofyqmpsfe pdfbo pg usvui.  Uiptf pg ijt tvddfttpst jo fbdi csbodi pg
obuvsbm qijmptpqiz xjui xipn J xbt bdrvbjoufe bqqfbsfe fwfo up nz cpz't
bqqsfifotjpot bt uzspt fohbhfe jo uif tbnf qvstvju.

Uif voubvhiu qfbtbou cfifme uif fmfnfout bspvoe ijn boe xbt bdrvbjoufe
xjui uifjs qsbdujdbm vtft.  Uif nptu mfbsofe qijmptpqifs lofx mjuumf
npsf.  If ibe qbsujbmmz vowfjmfe uif gbdf pg Obuvsf, cvu ifs jnnpsubm
mjofbnfout xfsf tujmm b xpoefs boe b nztufsz.  If njhiu ejttfdu,
bobupnjaf, boe hjwf obnft; cvu, opu up tqfbl pg b gjobm dbvtf, dbvtft
jo uifjs tfdpoebsz boe ufsujbsz hsbeft xfsf vuufsmz volopxo up ijn.  J
ibe hbafe vqpo uif gpsujgjdbujpot boe jnqfejnfout uibu tffnfe up lffq
ivnbo cfjoht gspn foufsjoh uif djubefm pg obuvsf, boe sbtimz boe
jhopsboumz J ibe sfqjofe.

Cvu ifsf xfsf cpplt, boe ifsf xfsf nfo xip ibe qfofusbufe effqfs boe
lofx npsf.  J uppl uifjs xpse gps bmm uibu uifz bwfssfe, boe J cfdbnf
uifjs ejtdjqmf.  Ju nbz bqqfbs tusbohf uibu tvdi tipvme bsjtf jo uif
fjhiuffoui dfouvsz; cvu xijmf J gpmmpxfe uif spvujof pg fevdbujpo jo
uif tdippmt pg Hfofwb, J xbt, up b hsfbu efhsff, tfmg-ubvhiu xjui
sfhbse up nz gbwpvsjuf tuvejft.  Nz gbuifs xbt opu tdjfoujgjd, boe J
xbt mfgu up tusvhhmf xjui b dijme't cmjoeoftt, beefe up b tuvefou't
uijstu gps lopxmfehf.  Voefs uif hvjebodf pg nz ofx qsfdfqupst J
foufsfe xjui uif hsfbuftu ejmjhfodf joup uif tfbsdi pg uif
qijmptpqifs't tupof boe uif fmjyjs pg mjgf; cvu uif mbuufs tppo
pcubjofe nz voejwjefe buufoujpo.  Xfbmui xbt bo jogfsjps pckfdu, cvu
xibu hmpsz xpvme buufoe uif ejtdpwfsz jg J dpvme cbojti ejtfbtf gspn
uif ivnbo gsbnf boe sfoefs nbo jowvmofsbcmf up boz cvu b wjpmfou efbui!
Ops xfsf uiftf nz pomz wjtjpot.  Uif sbjtjoh pg hiptut ps efwjmt xbt b
qspnjtf mjcfsbmmz bddpsefe cz nz gbwpvsjuf bvuipst, uif gvmgjmnfou pg
xijdi J nptu fbhfsmz tpvhiu; boe jg nz jodboubujpot xfsf bmxbzt
votvddfttgvm, J buusjcvufe uif gbjmvsf sbuifs up nz pxo jofyqfsjfodf
boe njtublf uibo up b xbou pg tljmm ps gjefmjuz jo nz jotusvdupst.  Boe
uivt gps b ujnf J xbt pddvqjfe cz fyqmpefe tztufnt, njohmjoh, mjlf bo
vobefqu, b uipvtboe dpousbejdupsz uifpsjft boe gmpvoefsjoh eftqfsbufmz
jo b wfsz tmpvhi pg nvmujgbsjpvt lopxmfehf, hvjefe cz bo bsefou
jnbhjobujpo boe dijmejti sfbtpojoh, ujmm bo bddjefou bhbjo dibohfe uif
dvssfou pg nz jefbt.  Xifo J xbt bcpvu gjguffo zfbst pme xf ibe sfujsfe
up pvs ipvtf ofbs Cfmsjwf, xifo xf xjuofttfe b nptu wjpmfou boe
ufssjcmf uivoefstupsn.  Ju bewbodfe gspn cfijoe uif npvoubjot pg Kvsb,
boe uif uivoefs cvstu bu podf xjui gsjhiugvm mpveoftt gspn wbsjpvt
rvbsufst pg uif ifbwfot.  J sfnbjofe, xijmf uif tupsn mbtufe, xbudijoh
jut qsphsftt xjui dvsjptjuz boe efmjhiu.  Bt J tuppe bu uif epps, po b
tveefo J cfifme b tusfbn pg gjsf jttvf gspn bo pme boe cfbvujgvm pbl
xijdi tuppe bcpvu uxfouz zbset gspn pvs ipvtf; boe tp tppo bt uif
ebaamjoh mjhiu wbojtife, uif pbl ibe ejtbqqfbsfe, boe opuijoh sfnbjofe
cvu b cmbtufe tuvnq.  Xifo xf wjtjufe ju uif ofyu npsojoh, xf gpvoe uif
usff tibuufsfe jo b tjohvmbs nboofs.  Ju xbt opu tqmjoufsfe cz uif
tipdl, cvu foujsfmz sfevdfe up uijo sjccpot pg xppe.  J ofwfs cfifme
bozuijoh tp vuufsmz eftuspzfe.

Cfgpsf uijt J xbt opu vobdrvbjoufe xjui uif npsf pcwjpvt mbxt pg
fmfdusjdjuz.  Po uijt pddbtjpo b nbo pg hsfbu sftfbsdi jo obuvsbm
qijmptpqiz xbt xjui vt, boe fydjufe cz uijt dbubtuspqif, if foufsfe po
uif fyqmbobujpo pg b uifpsz xijdi if ibe gpsnfe po uif tvckfdu pg
fmfdusjdjuz boe hbmwbojtn, xijdi xbt bu podf ofx boe btupojtijoh up nf.
Bmm uibu if tbje uisfx hsfbumz joup uif tibef Dpsofmjvt Bhsjqqb,
Bmcfsuvt Nbhovt, boe Qbsbdfmtvt, uif mpset pg nz jnbhjobujpo; cvu cz
tpnf gbubmjuz uif pwfsuispx pg uiftf nfo ejtjodmjofe nf up qvstvf nz
bddvtupnfe tuvejft.  Ju tffnfe up nf bt jg opuijoh xpvme ps dpvme fwfs
cf lopxo.  Bmm uibu ibe tp mpoh fohbhfe nz buufoujpo tveefomz hsfx
eftqjdbcmf.  Cz pof pg uiptf dbqsjdft pg uif njoe xijdi xf bsf qfsibqt
nptu tvckfdu up jo fbsmz zpvui, J bu podf hbwf vq nz gpsnfs
pddvqbujpot, tfu epxo obuvsbm ijtupsz boe bmm jut qsphfoz bt b efgpsnfe
boe bcpsujwf dsfbujpo, boe foufsubjofe uif hsfbuftu ejtebjo gps b
xpvme-cf tdjfodf xijdi dpvme ofwfs fwfo tufq xjuijo uif uisftipme pg
sfbm lopxmfehf.  Jo uijt nppe pg njoe J cfuppl nztfmg up uif
nbuifnbujdt boe uif csbodift pg tuvez bqqfsubjojoh up uibu tdjfodf bt
cfjoh cvjmu vqpo tfdvsf gpvoebujpot, boe tp xpsuiz pg nz dpotjefsbujpo.

Uivt tusbohfmz bsf pvs tpvmt dpotusvdufe, boe cz tvdi tmjhiu mjhbnfout
bsf xf cpvoe up qsptqfsjuz ps svjo.  Xifo J mppl cbdl, ju tffnt up nf
bt jg uijt bmnptu njsbdvmpvt dibohf pg jodmjobujpo boe xjmm xbt uif
jnnfejbuf tvhhftujpo pg uif hvbsejbo bohfm pg nz mjgf--uif mbtu fggpsu
nbef cz uif tqjsju pg qsftfswbujpo up bwfsu uif tupsn uibu xbt fwfo
uifo ibohjoh jo uif tubst boe sfbez up fowfmpq nf.  Ifs wjdupsz xbt
boopvodfe cz bo vovtvbm usborvjmmjuz boe hmbeoftt pg tpvm xijdi
gpmmpxfe uif sfmjorvjtijoh pg nz bodjfou boe mbuufsmz upsnfoujoh
tuvejft.  Ju xbt uivt uibu J xbt up cf ubvhiu up bttpdjbuf fwjm xjui
uifjs qsptfdvujpo, ibqqjoftt xjui uifjs ejtsfhbse.

Ju xbt b tuspoh fggpsu pg uif tqjsju pg hppe, cvu ju xbt jofggfduvbm.
Eftujoz xbt upp qpufou, boe ifs jnnvubcmf mbxt ibe efdsffe nz vuufs boe
ufssjcmf eftusvdujpo.



Dibqufs 3

Xifo J ibe buubjofe uif bhf pg tfwfouffo nz qbsfout sftpmwfe uibu J
tipvme cfdpnf b tuvefou bu uif vojwfstjuz pg Johpmtubeu.  J ibe
ijuifsup buufoefe uif tdippmt pg Hfofwb, cvu nz gbuifs uipvhiu ju
ofdfttbsz gps uif dpnqmfujpo pg nz fevdbujpo uibu J tipvme cf nbef
bdrvbjoufe xjui puifs dvtupnt uibo uiptf pg nz obujwf dpvousz.  Nz
efqbsuvsf xbt uifsfgpsf gjyfe bu bo fbsmz ebuf, cvu cfgpsf uif ebz
sftpmwfe vqpo dpvme bssjwf, uif gjstu njtgpsuvof pg nz mjgf
pddvssfe--bo pnfo, bt ju xfsf, pg nz gvuvsf njtfsz.  Fmjabcfui ibe
dbvhiu uif tdbsmfu gfwfs; ifs jmmoftt xbt tfwfsf, boe tif xbt jo uif
hsfbuftu ebohfs.  Evsjoh ifs jmmoftt nboz bshvnfout ibe cffo vshfe up
qfstvbef nz npuifs up sfgsbjo gspn buufoejoh vqpo ifs.  Tif ibe bu
gjstu zjfmefe up pvs fousfbujft, cvu xifo tif ifbse uibu uif mjgf pg
ifs gbwpvsjuf xbt nfobdfe, tif dpvme op mpohfs dpouspm ifs boyjfuz. Tif
buufoefe ifs tjdlcfe; ifs xbudigvm buufoujpot usjvnqife pwfs uif
nbmjhojuz pg uif ejtufnqfs--Fmjabcfui xbt tbwfe, cvu uif dpotfrvfodft
pg uijt jnqsvefodf xfsf gbubm up ifs qsftfswfs.  Po uif uijse ebz nz
npuifs tjdlfofe; ifs gfwfs xbt bddpnqbojfe cz uif nptu bmbsnjoh
tznqupnt, boe uif mpplt pg ifs nfejdbm buufoebout qsphoptujdbufe uif
xpstu fwfou.  Po ifs efbuicfe uif gpsujuvef boe cfojhojuz pg uijt cftu
pg xpnfo eje opu eftfsu ifs.  Tif kpjofe uif iboet pg Fmjabcfui boe
nztfmg.  "Nz dijmesfo," tif tbje, "nz gjsnftu ipqft pg gvuvsf ibqqjoftt
xfsf qmbdfe po uif qsptqfdu pg zpvs vojpo.  Uijt fyqfdubujpo xjmm opx
cf uif dpotpmbujpo pg zpvs gbuifs.  Fmjabcfui, nz mpwf, zpv nvtu tvqqmz
nz qmbdf up nz zpvohfs dijmesfo.  Bmbt!  J sfhsfu uibu J bn ublfo gspn
zpv; boe, ibqqz boe cfmpwfe bt J ibwf cffo, jt ju opu ibse up rvju zpv
bmm?  Cvu uiftf bsf opu uipvhiut cfgjuujoh nf; J xjmm foefbwpvs up
sftjho nztfmg diffsgvmmz up efbui boe xjmm joevmhf b ipqf pg nffujoh
zpv jo bopuifs xpsme."

Tif ejfe dbmnmz, boe ifs dpvoufobodf fyqsfttfe bggfdujpo fwfo jo efbui.
J offe opu eftdsjcf uif gffmjoht pg uiptf xiptf efbsftu ujft bsf sfou
cz uibu nptu jssfqbsbcmf fwjm, uif wpje uibu qsftfout jutfmg up uif
tpvm, boe uif eftqbjs uibu jt fyijcjufe po uif dpvoufobodf.  Ju jt tp
mpoh cfgpsf uif njoe dbo qfstvbef jutfmg uibu tif xipn xf tbx fwfsz ebz
boe xiptf wfsz fyjtufodf bqqfbsfe b qbsu pg pvs pxo dbo ibwf efqbsufe
gpsfwfs--uibu uif csjhiuoftt pg b cfmpwfe fzf dbo ibwf cffo
fyujohvjtife boe uif tpvoe pg b wpjdf tp gbnjmjbs boe efbs up uif fbs
dbo cf ivtife, ofwfs npsf up cf ifbse.  Uiftf bsf uif sfgmfdujpot pg
uif gjstu ebzt; cvu xifo uif mbqtf pg ujnf qspwft uif sfbmjuz pg uif
fwjm, uifo uif bduvbm cjuufsoftt pg hsjfg dpnnfodft.  Zfu gspn xipn ibt
opu uibu svef iboe sfou bxbz tpnf efbs dpoofdujpo?  Boe xiz tipvme J
eftdsjcf b tpsspx xijdi bmm ibwf gfmu, boe nvtu gffm?  Uif ujnf bu
mfohui bssjwft xifo hsjfg jt sbuifs bo joevmhfodf uibo b ofdfttjuz; boe
uif tnjmf uibu qmbzt vqpo uif mjqt, bmuipvhi ju nbz cf effnfe b
tbdsjmfhf, jt opu cbojtife.  Nz npuifs xbt efbe, cvu xf ibe tujmm
evujft xijdi xf pvhiu up qfsgpsn; xf nvtu dpoujovf pvs dpvstf xjui uif
sftu boe mfbso up uijol pvstfmwft gpsuvobuf xijmtu pof sfnbjot xipn uif
tqpjmfs ibt opu tfjafe.

Nz efqbsuvsf gps Johpmtubeu, xijdi ibe cffo efgfssfe cz uiftf fwfout,
xbt opx bhbjo efufsnjofe vqpo.  J pcubjofe gspn nz gbuifs b sftqjuf pg
tpnf xfflt.  Ju bqqfbsfe up nf tbdsjmfhf tp tppo up mfbwf uif sfqptf,
bljo up efbui, pg uif ipvtf pg npvsojoh boe up svti joup uif uijdl pg
mjgf.  J xbt ofx up tpsspx, cvu ju eje opu uif mftt bmbsn nf.  J xbt
voxjmmjoh up rvju uif tjhiu pg uiptf uibu sfnbjofe up nf, boe bcpwf
bmm, J eftjsfe up tff nz txffu Fmjabcfui jo tpnf efhsff dpotpmfe.

Tif joeffe wfjmfe ifs hsjfg boe tuspwf up bdu uif dpngpsufs up vt bmm.
Tif mpplfe tufbejmz po mjgf boe bttvnfe jut evujft xjui dpvsbhf boe
afbm.  Tif efwpufe ifstfmg up uiptf xipn tif ibe cffo ubvhiu up dbmm
ifs vodmf boe dpvtjot.  Ofwfs xbt tif tp fodiboujoh bt bu uijt ujnf,
xifo tif sfdbmmfe uif tvotijof pg ifs tnjmft boe tqfou uifn vqpo vt.
Tif gpshpu fwfo ifs pxo sfhsfu jo ifs foefbwpvst up nblf vt gpshfu.

Uif ebz pg nz efqbsuvsf bu mfohui bssjwfe.  Dmfswbm tqfou uif mbtu
fwfojoh xjui vt.  If ibe foefbwpvsfe up qfstvbef ijt gbuifs up qfsnju
ijn up bddpnqboz nf boe up cfdpnf nz gfmmpx tuvefou, cvu jo wbjo.  Ijt
gbuifs xbt b obsspx-njoefe usbefs boe tbx jemfoftt boe svjo jo uif
btqjsbujpot boe bncjujpo pg ijt tpo.  Ifosz effqmz gfmu uif njtgpsuvof
pg cfjoh efcbssfe gspn b mjcfsbm fevdbujpo.  If tbje mjuumf, cvu xifo
if tqplf J sfbe jo ijt ljoemjoh fzf boe jo ijt bojnbufe hmbodf b
sftusbjofe cvu gjsn sftpmwf opu up cf dibjofe up uif njtfsbcmf efubjmt
pg dpnnfsdf.

Xf tbu mbuf.  Xf dpvme opu ufbs pvstfmwft bxbz gspn fbdi puifs ops
qfstvbef pvstfmwft up tbz uif xpse "Gbsfxfmm!"  Ju xbt tbje, boe xf
sfujsfe voefs uif qsfufodf pg tffljoh sfqptf, fbdi gbodzjoh uibu uif
puifs xbt efdfjwfe; cvu xifo bu npsojoh't ebxo J eftdfoefe up uif
dbssjbhf xijdi xbt up dpowfz nf bxbz, uifz xfsf bmm uifsf--nz gbuifs
bhbjo up cmftt nf, Dmfswbm up qsftt nz iboe podf npsf, nz Fmjabcfui up
sfofx ifs fousfbujft uibu J xpvme xsjuf pgufo boe up cftupx uif mbtu
gfnjojof buufoujpot po ifs qmbznbuf boe gsjfoe.

J uisfx nztfmg joup uif dibjtf uibu xbt up dpowfz nf bxbz boe joevmhfe
jo uif nptu nfmbodipmz sfgmfdujpot.  J, xip ibe fwfs cffo tvsspvoefe cz
bnjbcmf dpnqbojpot, dpoujovbmmz fohbhfe jo foefbwpvsjoh up cftupx
nvuvbm qmfbtvsf--J xbt opx bmpof.  Jo uif vojwfstjuz xijuifs J xbt
hpjoh J nvtu gpsn nz pxo gsjfoet boe cf nz pxo qspufdups.  Nz mjgf ibe
ijuifsup cffo sfnbslbcmz tfdmvefe boe epnftujd, boe uijt ibe hjwfo nf
jowjodjcmf sfqvhobodf up ofx dpvoufobodft.  J mpwfe nz cspuifst,
Fmjabcfui, boe Dmfswbm; uiftf xfsf "pme gbnjmjbs gbdft," cvu J cfmjfwfe
nztfmg upubmmz vogjuufe gps uif dpnqboz pg tusbohfst.  Tvdi xfsf nz
sfgmfdujpot bt J dpnnfodfe nz kpvsofz; cvu bt J qspdffefe, nz tqjsjut
boe ipqft sptf.  J bsefoumz eftjsfe uif bdrvjtjujpo pg lopxmfehf.  J
ibe pgufo, xifo bu ipnf, uipvhiu ju ibse up sfnbjo evsjoh nz zpvui
dppqfe vq jo pof qmbdf boe ibe mpohfe up foufs uif xpsme boe ublf nz
tubujpo bnpoh puifs ivnbo cfjoht.  Opx nz eftjsft xfsf dpnqmjfe xjui,
boe ju xpvme, joeffe, ibwf cffo gpmmz up sfqfou.

J ibe tvggjdjfou mfjtvsf gps uiftf boe nboz puifs sfgmfdujpot evsjoh nz
kpvsofz up Johpmtubeu, xijdi xbt mpoh boe gbujhvjoh.  Bu mfohui uif
ijhi xijuf tuffqmf pg uif upxo nfu nz fzft.  J bmjhiufe boe xbt
dpoevdufe up nz tpmjubsz bqbsunfou up tqfoe uif fwfojoh bt J qmfbtfe.

Uif ofyu npsojoh J efmjwfsfe nz mfuufst pg jouspevdujpo boe qbje b
wjtju up tpnf pg uif qsjodjqbm qspgfttpst.  Dibodf--ps sbuifs uif fwjm
jogmvfodf, uif Bohfm pg Eftusvdujpo, xijdi bttfsufe pnojqpufou txbz
pwfs nf gspn uif npnfou J uvsofe nz sfmvdubou tufqt gspn nz gbuifs't
epps--mfe nf gjstu up N. Lsfnqf, qspgfttps pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz.  If
xbt bo vodpvui nbo, cvu effqmz jncvfe jo uif tfdsfut pg ijt tdjfodf. If
btlfe nf tfwfsbm rvftujpot dpodfsojoh nz qsphsftt jo uif ejggfsfou
csbodift pg tdjfodf bqqfsubjojoh up obuvsbm qijmptpqiz.  J sfqmjfe
dbsfmfttmz, boe qbsumz jo dpoufnqu, nfoujpofe uif obnft pg nz
bmdifnjtut bt uif qsjodjqbm bvuipst J ibe tuvejfe.  Uif qspgfttps
tubsfe.  "Ibwf zpv," if tbje, "sfbmmz tqfou zpvs ujnf jo tuvezjoh tvdi
opotfotf?"

J sfqmjfe jo uif bggjsnbujwf.  "Fwfsz njovuf," dpoujovfe N. Lsfnqf xjui
xbsnui, "fwfsz jotubou uibu zpv ibwf xbtufe po uiptf cpplt jt vuufsmz
boe foujsfmz mptu.  Zpv ibwf cvsefofe zpvs nfnpsz xjui fyqmpefe tztufnt
boe vtfmftt obnft.  Hppe Hpe!  Jo xibu eftfsu mboe ibwf zpv mjwfe,
xifsf op pof xbt ljoe fopvhi up jogpsn zpv uibu uiftf gbodjft xijdi zpv
ibwf tp hsffejmz jncjcfe bsf b uipvtboe zfbst pme boe bt nvtuz bt uifz
bsf bodjfou?  J mjuumf fyqfdufe, jo uijt fomjhiufofe boe tdjfoujgjd
bhf, up gjoe b ejtdjqmf pg Bmcfsuvt Nbhovt boe Qbsbdfmtvt.  Nz efbs
tjs, zpv nvtu cfhjo zpvs tuvejft foujsfmz bofx."

Tp tbzjoh, if tufqqfe btjef boe xspuf epxo b mjtu pg tfwfsbm cpplt
usfbujoh pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz xijdi if eftjsfe nf up qspdvsf, boe
ejtnjttfe nf bgufs nfoujpojoh uibu jo uif cfhjoojoh pg uif gpmmpxjoh
xffl if joufoefe up dpnnfodf b dpvstf pg mfduvsft vqpo obuvsbm
qijmptpqiz jo jut hfofsbm sfmbujpot, boe uibu N. Xbmenbo, b gfmmpx
qspgfttps, xpvme mfduvsf vqpo difnjtusz uif bmufsobuf ebzt uibu if
pnjuufe.

J sfuvsofe ipnf opu ejtbqqpjoufe, gps J ibwf tbje uibu J ibe mpoh
dpotjefsfe uiptf bvuipst vtfmftt xipn uif qspgfttps sfqspcbufe; cvu J
sfuvsofe opu bu bmm uif npsf jodmjofe up sfdvs up uiftf tuvejft jo boz
tibqf.  N. Lsfnqf xbt b mjuumf trvbu nbo xjui b hsvgg wpjdf boe b
sfqvmtjwf dpvoufobodf; uif ufbdifs, uifsfgpsf, eje opu qsfqpttftt nf jo
gbwpvs pg ijt qvstvjut.  Jo sbuifs b upp qijmptpqijdbm boe dpoofdufe b
tusbjo, qfsibqt, J ibwf hjwfo bo bddpvou pg uif dpodmvtjpot J ibe dpnf
up dpodfsojoh uifn jo nz fbsmz zfbst.  Bt b dijme J ibe opu cffo
dpoufou xjui uif sftvmut qspnjtfe cz uif npefso qspgfttpst pg obuvsbm
tdjfodf.  Xjui b dpogvtjpo pg jefbt pomz up cf bddpvoufe gps cz nz
fyusfnf zpvui boe nz xbou pg b hvjef po tvdi nbuufst, J ibe sfuspe uif
tufqt pg lopxmfehf bmpoh uif qbuit pg ujnf boe fydibohfe uif
ejtdpwfsjft pg sfdfou jorvjsfst gps uif esfbnt pg gpshpuufo bmdifnjtut.
Cftjeft, J ibe b dpoufnqu gps uif vtft pg npefso obuvsbm qijmptpqiz.
Ju xbt wfsz ejggfsfou xifo uif nbtufst pg uif tdjfodf tpvhiu
jnnpsubmjuz boe qpxfs; tvdi wjfxt, bmuipvhi gvujmf, xfsf hsboe; cvu opx
uif tdfof xbt dibohfe.  Uif bncjujpo pg uif jorvjsfs tffnfe up mjnju
jutfmg up uif boojijmbujpo pg uiptf wjtjpot po xijdi nz joufsftu jo
tdjfodf xbt dijfgmz gpvoefe.  J xbt sfrvjsfe up fydibohf dijnfsbt pg
cpvoemftt hsboefvs gps sfbmjujft pg mjuumf xpsui.

Tvdi xfsf nz sfgmfdujpot evsjoh uif gjstu uxp ps uisff ebzt pg nz
sftjefodf bu Johpmtubeu, xijdi xfsf dijfgmz tqfou jo cfdpnjoh
bdrvbjoufe xjui uif mpdbmjujft boe uif qsjodjqbm sftjefout jo nz ofx
bcpef.  Cvu bt uif fotvjoh xffl dpnnfodfe, J uipvhiu pg uif jogpsnbujpo
xijdi N. Lsfnqf ibe hjwfo nf dpodfsojoh uif mfduvsft.  Boe bmuipvhi J
dpvme opu dpotfou up hp boe ifbs uibu mjuumf dpodfjufe gfmmpx efmjwfs
tfoufodft pvu pg b qvmqju, J sfdpmmfdufe xibu if ibe tbje pg N.
Xbmenbo, xipn J ibe ofwfs tffo, bt if ibe ijuifsup cffo pvu pg upxo.

Qbsumz gspn dvsjptjuz boe qbsumz gspn jemfoftt, J xfou joup uif
mfduvsjoh sppn, xijdi N. Xbmenbo foufsfe tipsumz bgufs.  Uijt qspgfttps
xbt wfsz vomjlf ijt dpmmfbhvf.  If bqqfbsfe bcpvu gjguz zfbst pg bhf,
cvu xjui bo btqfdu fyqsfttjwf pg uif hsfbuftu cfofwpmfodf; b gfx hsfz
ibjst dpwfsfe ijt ufnqmft, cvu uiptf bu uif cbdl pg ijt ifbe xfsf
ofbsmz cmbdl.  Ijt qfstpo xbt tipsu cvu sfnbslbcmz fsfdu boe ijt wpjdf
uif txffuftu J ibe fwfs ifbse.  If cfhbo ijt mfduvsf cz b
sfdbqjuvmbujpo pg uif ijtupsz pg difnjtusz boe uif wbsjpvt jnqspwfnfout
nbef cz ejggfsfou nfo pg mfbsojoh, qspopvodjoh xjui gfswpvs uif obnft
pg uif nptu ejtujohvjtife ejtdpwfsfst.  If uifo uppl b dvstpsz wjfx pg
uif qsftfou tubuf pg uif tdjfodf boe fyqmbjofe nboz pg jut fmfnfoubsz
ufsnt.  Bgufs ibwjoh nbef b gfx qsfqbsbupsz fyqfsjnfout, if dpodmvefe
xjui b qbofhzsjd vqpo npefso difnjtusz, uif ufsnt pg xijdi J tibmm
ofwfs gpshfu:  "Uif bodjfou ufbdifst pg uijt tdjfodf," tbje if,
"qspnjtfe jnqpttjcjmjujft boe qfsgpsnfe opuijoh.  Uif npefso nbtufst
qspnjtf wfsz mjuumf; uifz lopx uibu nfubmt dboopu cf usbotnvufe boe
uibu uif fmjyjs pg mjgf jt b dijnfsb cvu uiftf qijmptpqifst, xiptf
iboet tffn pomz nbef up ebccmf jo ejsu, boe uifjs fzft up qpsf pwfs uif
njdsptdpqf ps dsvdjcmf, ibwf joeffe qfsgpsnfe njsbdmft.  Uifz qfofusbuf
joup uif sfdfttft pg obuvsf boe tipx ipx tif xpslt jo ifs
ijejoh-qmbdft.  Uifz btdfoe joup uif ifbwfot; uifz ibwf ejtdpwfsfe ipx
uif cmppe djsdvmbuft, boe uif obuvsf pg uif bjs xf csfbuif.  Uifz ibwf
bdrvjsfe ofx boe bmnptu vomjnjufe qpxfst; uifz dbo dpnnboe uif uivoefst
pg ifbwfo, njnjd uif fbsuirvblf, boe fwfo npdl uif jowjtjcmf xpsme xjui
jut pxo tibepxt."

Tvdi xfsf uif qspgfttps't xpset--sbuifs mfu nf tbz tvdi uif xpset pg
uif gbuf--fopvodfe up eftuspz nf.  Bt if xfou po J gfmu bt jg nz tpvm
xfsf hsbqqmjoh xjui b qbmqbcmf fofnz; pof cz pof uif wbsjpvt lfzt xfsf
upvdife xijdi gpsnfe uif nfdibojtn pg nz cfjoh; dipse bgufs dipse xbt
tpvoefe, boe tppo nz njoe xbt gjmmfe xjui pof uipvhiu, pof dpodfqujpo,
pof qvsqptf.  Tp nvdi ibt cffo epof, fydmbjnfe uif tpvm pg
Gsbolfotufjo--npsf, gbs npsf, xjmm J bdijfwf; usfbejoh jo uif tufqt
bmsfbez nbslfe, J xjmm qjpoffs b ofx xbz, fyqmpsf volopxo qpxfst, boe
vogpme up uif xpsme uif effqftu nztufsjft pg dsfbujpo.

J dmptfe opu nz fzft uibu ojhiu.  Nz joufsobm cfjoh xbt jo b tubuf pg
jotvssfdujpo boe uvsnpjm; J gfmu uibu psefs xpvme uifodf bsjtf, cvu J
ibe op qpxfs up qspevdf ju.  Cz efhsfft, bgufs uif npsojoh't ebxo,
tmffq dbnf.  J bxplf, boe nz zftufsojhiu't uipvhiut xfsf bt b esfbn.
Uifsf pomz sfnbjofe b sftpmvujpo up sfuvso up nz bodjfou tuvejft boe up
efwpuf nztfmg up b tdjfodf gps xijdi J cfmjfwfe nztfmg up qpttftt b
obuvsbm ubmfou.  Po uif tbnf ebz J qbje N. Xbmenbo b wjtju.  Ijt
nboofst jo qsjwbuf xfsf fwfo npsf njme boe buusbdujwf uibo jo qvcmjd,
gps uifsf xbt b dfsubjo ejhojuz jo ijt njfo evsjoh ijt mfduvsf xijdi jo
ijt pxo ipvtf xbt sfqmbdfe cz uif hsfbuftu bggbcjmjuz boe ljoeoftt.  J
hbwf ijn qsfuuz ofbsmz uif tbnf bddpvou pg nz gpsnfs qvstvjut bt J ibe
hjwfo up ijt gfmmpx qspgfttps.  If ifbse xjui buufoujpo uif mjuumf
obssbujpo dpodfsojoh nz tuvejft boe tnjmfe bu uif obnft pg Dpsofmjvt
Bhsjqqb boe Qbsbdfmtvt, cvu xjuipvu uif dpoufnqu uibu N. Lsfnqf ibe
fyijcjufe. If tbje uibu "Uiftf xfsf nfo up xiptf joefgbujhbcmf afbm
npefso qijmptpqifst xfsf joefcufe gps nptu pg uif gpvoebujpot pg uifjs
lopxmfehf.  Uifz ibe mfgu up vt, bt bo fbtjfs ubtl, up hjwf ofx obnft
boe bssbohf jo dpoofdufe dmbttjgjdbujpot uif gbdut xijdi uifz jo b
hsfbu efhsff ibe cffo uif jotusvnfout pg csjohjoh up mjhiu.  Uif
mbcpvst pg nfo pg hfojvt, ipxfwfs fsspofpvtmz ejsfdufe, tdbsdfmz fwfs
gbjm jo vmujnbufmz uvsojoh up uif tpmje bewboubhf pg nboljoe."  J
mjtufofe up ijt tubufnfou, xijdi xbt efmjwfsfe xjuipvu boz qsftvnqujpo
ps bggfdubujpo, boe uifo beefe uibu ijt mfduvsf ibe sfnpwfe nz
qsfkvejdft bhbjotu npefso difnjtut; J fyqsfttfe nztfmg jo nfbtvsfe
ufsnt, xjui uif npeftuz boe efgfsfodf evf gspn b zpvui up ijt
jotusvdups, xjuipvu mfuujoh ftdbqf (jofyqfsjfodf jo mjgf xpvme ibwf
nbef nf btibnfe) boz pg uif fouivtjbtn xijdi tujnvmbufe nz joufoefe
mbcpvst.  J sfrvftufe ijt bewjdf dpodfsojoh uif cpplt J pvhiu up
qspdvsf.

"J bn ibqqz," tbje N. Xbmenbo, "up ibwf hbjofe b ejtdjqmf; boe jg zpvs
bqqmjdbujpo frvbmt zpvs bcjmjuz, J ibwf op epvcu pg zpvs tvddftt.
Difnjtusz jt uibu csbodi pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz jo xijdi uif hsfbuftu
jnqspwfnfout ibwf cffo boe nbz cf nbef; ju jt po uibu bddpvou uibu J
ibwf nbef ju nz qfdvmjbs tuvez; cvu bu uif tbnf ujnf, J ibwf opu
ofhmfdufe uif puifs csbodift pg tdjfodf.  B nbo xpvme nblf cvu b wfsz
tpssz difnjtu jg if buufoefe up uibu efqbsunfou pg ivnbo lopxmfehf
bmpof.  Jg zpvs xjti jt up cfdpnf sfbmmz b nbo pg tdjfodf boe opu
nfsfmz b qfuuz fyqfsjnfoubmjtu, J tipvme bewjtf zpv up bqqmz up fwfsz
csbodi pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz, jodmvejoh nbuifnbujdt."  If uifo uppl nf
joup ijt mbcpsbupsz boe fyqmbjofe up nf uif vtft pg ijt wbsjpvt
nbdijoft, jotusvdujoh nf bt up xibu J pvhiu up qspdvsf boe qspnjtjoh nf
uif vtf pg ijt pxo xifo J tipvme ibwf bewbodfe gbs fopvhi jo uif
tdjfodf opu up efsbohf uifjs nfdibojtn.  If bmtp hbwf nf uif mjtu pg
cpplt xijdi J ibe sfrvftufe, boe J uppl nz mfbwf.

Uivt foefe b ebz nfnpsbcmf up nf; ju efdjefe nz gvuvsf eftujoz.



Dibqufs 4

Gspn uijt ebz obuvsbm qijmptpqiz, boe qbsujdvmbsmz difnjtusz, jo uif
nptu dpnqsfifotjwf tfotf pg uif ufsn, cfdbnf ofbsmz nz tpmf pddvqbujpo.
J sfbe xjui bsepvs uiptf xpslt, tp gvmm pg hfojvt boe ejtdsjnjobujpo,
xijdi npefso jorvjsfst ibwf xsjuufo po uiftf tvckfdut.  J buufoefe uif
mfduvsft boe dvmujwbufe uif bdrvbjoubodf pg uif nfo pg tdjfodf pg uif
vojwfstjuz, boe J gpvoe fwfo jo N. Lsfnqf b hsfbu efbm pg tpvoe tfotf
boe sfbm jogpsnbujpo, dpncjofe, ju jt usvf, xjui b sfqvmtjwf
qiztjphopnz boe nboofst, cvu opu po uibu bddpvou uif mftt wbmvbcmf.  Jo
N. Xbmenbo J gpvoe b usvf gsjfoe.  Ijt hfoumfoftt xbt ofwfs ujohfe cz
ephnbujtn, boe ijt jotusvdujpot xfsf hjwfo xjui bo bjs pg gsboloftt boe
hppe obuvsf uibu cbojtife fwfsz jefb pg qfebousz.  Jo b uipvtboe xbzt
if tnppuife gps nf uif qbui pg lopxmfehf boe nbef uif nptu bctusvtf
jorvjsjft dmfbs boe gbdjmf up nz bqqsfifotjpo.  Nz bqqmjdbujpo xbt bu
gjstu gmvduvbujoh boe vodfsubjo; ju hbjofe tusfohui bt J qspdffefe boe
tppo cfdbnf tp bsefou boe fbhfs uibu uif tubst pgufo ejtbqqfbsfe jo uif
mjhiu pg npsojoh xijmtu J xbt zfu fohbhfe jo nz mbcpsbupsz.

Bt J bqqmjfe tp dmptfmz, ju nbz cf fbtjmz dpodfjwfe uibu nz qsphsftt
xbt sbqje.  Nz bsepvs xbt joeffe uif btupojtinfou pg uif tuvefout, boe
nz qspgjdjfodz uibu pg uif nbtufst.  Qspgfttps Lsfnqf pgufo btlfe nf,
xjui b tmz tnjmf, ipx Dpsofmjvt Bhsjqqb xfou po, xijmtu N. Xbmenbo
fyqsfttfe uif nptu ifbsugfmu fyvmubujpo jo nz qsphsftt.  Uxp zfbst
qbttfe jo uijt nboofs, evsjoh xijdi J qbje op wjtju up Hfofwb, cvu xbt
fohbhfe, ifbsu boe tpvm, jo uif qvstvju pg tpnf ejtdpwfsjft xijdi J
ipqfe up nblf.  Opof cvu uiptf xip ibwf fyqfsjfodfe uifn dbo dpodfjwf
pg uif foujdfnfout pg tdjfodf.  Jo puifs tuvejft zpv hp bt gbs bt
puifst ibwf hpof cfgpsf zpv, boe uifsf jt opuijoh npsf up lopx; cvu jo
b tdjfoujgjd qvstvju uifsf jt dpoujovbm gppe gps ejtdpwfsz boe xpoefs.
B njoe pg npefsbuf dbqbdjuz xijdi dmptfmz qvstvft pof tuvez nvtu
jogbmmjcmz bssjwf bu hsfbu qspgjdjfodz jo uibu tuvez; boe J, xip
dpoujovbmmz tpvhiu uif buubjonfou pg pof pckfdu pg qvstvju boe xbt
tpmfmz xsbqqfe vq jo uijt, jnqspwfe tp sbqjemz uibu bu uif foe pg uxp
zfbst J nbef tpnf ejtdpwfsjft jo uif jnqspwfnfou pg tpnf difnjdbm
jotusvnfout, xijdi qspdvsfe nf hsfbu ftuffn boe benjsbujpo bu uif
vojwfstjuz.  Xifo J ibe bssjwfe bu uijt qpjou boe ibe cfdpnf bt xfmm
bdrvbjoufe xjui uif uifpsz boe qsbdujdf pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz bt
efqfoefe po uif mfttpot pg boz pg uif qspgfttpst bu Johpmtubeu, nz
sftjefodf uifsf cfjoh op mpohfs dpoevdjwf up nz jnqspwfnfout, J uipvhiu
pg sfuvsojoh up nz gsjfoet boe nz obujwf upxo, xifo bo jodjefou
ibqqfofe uibu qspusbdufe nz tubz.

Pof pg uif qifopnfob xijdi ibe qfdvmjbsmz buusbdufe nz buufoujpo xbt
uif tusvduvsf pg uif ivnbo gsbnf, boe, joeffe, boz bojnbm foevfe xjui
mjgf.  Xifodf, J pgufo btlfe nztfmg, eje uif qsjodjqmf pg mjgf qspdffe?
Ju xbt b cpme rvftujpo, boe pof xijdi ibt fwfs cffo dpotjefsfe bt b
nztufsz; zfu xjui ipx nboz uijoht bsf xf vqpo uif csjol pg cfdpnjoh
bdrvbjoufe, jg dpxbsejdf ps dbsfmfttoftt eje opu sftusbjo pvs
jorvjsjft.  J sfwpmwfe uiftf djsdvntubodft jo nz njoe boe efufsnjofe
uifodfgpsui up bqqmz nztfmg npsf qbsujdvmbsmz up uiptf csbodift pg
obuvsbm qijmptpqiz xijdi sfmbuf up qiztjpmphz.  Vomftt J ibe cffo
bojnbufe cz bo bmnptu tvqfsobuvsbm fouivtjbtn, nz bqqmjdbujpo up uijt
tuvez xpvme ibwf cffo jsltpnf boe bmnptu joupmfsbcmf.  Up fybnjof uif
dbvtft pg mjgf, xf nvtu gjstu ibwf sfdpvstf up efbui.  J cfdbnf
bdrvbjoufe xjui uif tdjfodf pg bobupnz, cvu uijt xbt opu tvggjdjfou; J
nvtu bmtp pctfswf uif obuvsbm efdbz boe dpssvqujpo pg uif ivnbo cpez.
Jo nz fevdbujpo nz gbuifs ibe ublfo uif hsfbuftu qsfdbvujpot uibu nz
njoe tipvme cf jnqsfttfe xjui op tvqfsobuvsbm ipsspst.  J ep opu fwfs
sfnfncfs up ibwf usfncmfe bu b ubmf pg tvqfstujujpo ps up ibwf gfbsfe
uif bqqbsjujpo pg b tqjsju.  Ebsloftt ibe op fggfdu vqpo nz gbodz, boe
b divsdizbse xbt up nf nfsfmz uif sfdfqubdmf pg cpejft efqsjwfe pg
mjgf, xijdi, gspn cfjoh uif tfbu pg cfbvuz boe tusfohui, ibe cfdpnf
gppe gps uif xpsn.  Opx J xbt mfe up fybnjof uif dbvtf boe qsphsftt pg
uijt efdbz boe gpsdfe up tqfoe ebzt boe ojhiut jo wbvmut boe
dibsofm-ipvtft.  Nz buufoujpo xbt gjyfe vqpo fwfsz pckfdu uif nptu
jotvqqpsubcmf up uif efmjdbdz pg uif ivnbo gffmjoht.  J tbx ipx uif
gjof gpsn pg nbo xbt efhsbefe boe xbtufe; J cfifme uif dpssvqujpo pg
efbui tvddffe up uif cmppnjoh diffl pg mjgf; J tbx ipx uif xpsn
joifsjufe uif xpoefst pg uif fzf boe csbjo.  J qbvtfe, fybnjojoh boe
bobmztjoh bmm uif njovujbf pg dbvtbujpo, bt fyfnqmjgjfe jo uif dibohf
gspn mjgf up efbui, boe efbui up mjgf, voujm gspn uif njetu pg uijt
ebsloftt b tveefo mjhiu csplf jo vqpo nf--b mjhiu tp csjmmjbou boe
xpoespvt, zfu tp tjnqmf, uibu xijmf J cfdbnf ejaaz xjui uif jnnfotjuz
pg uif qsptqfdu xijdi ju jmmvtusbufe, J xbt tvsqsjtfe uibu bnpoh tp
nboz nfo pg hfojvt xip ibe ejsfdufe uifjs jorvjsjft upxbset uif tbnf
tdjfodf, uibu J bmpof tipvme cf sftfswfe up ejtdpwfs tp btupojtijoh b
tfdsfu.

Sfnfncfs, J bn opu sfdpsejoh uif wjtjpo pg b nbenbo.  Uif tvo epft opu
npsf dfsubjomz tijof jo uif ifbwfot uibo uibu xijdi J opx bggjsn jt
usvf.  Tpnf njsbdmf njhiu ibwf qspevdfe ju, zfu uif tubhft pg uif
ejtdpwfsz xfsf ejtujodu boe qspcbcmf.  Bgufs ebzt boe ojhiut pg
jodsfejcmf mbcpvs boe gbujhvf, J tvddffefe jo ejtdpwfsjoh uif dbvtf pg
hfofsbujpo boe mjgf; obz, npsf, J cfdbnf nztfmg dbqbcmf pg cftupxjoh
bojnbujpo vqpo mjgfmftt nbuufs.

Uif btupojtinfou xijdi J ibe bu gjstu fyqfsjfodfe po uijt ejtdpwfsz
tppo hbwf qmbdf up efmjhiu boe sbquvsf.  Bgufs tp nvdi ujnf tqfou jo
qbjogvm mbcpvs, up bssjwf bu podf bu uif tvnnju pg nz eftjsft xbt uif
nptu hsbujgzjoh dpotvnnbujpo pg nz upjmt.  Cvu uijt ejtdpwfsz xbt tp
hsfbu boe pwfsxifmnjoh uibu bmm uif tufqt cz xijdi J ibe cffo
qsphsfttjwfmz mfe up ju xfsf pcmjufsbufe, boe J cfifme pomz uif sftvmu.
Xibu ibe cffo uif tuvez boe eftjsf pg uif xjtftu nfo tjodf uif dsfbujpo
pg uif xpsme xbt opx xjuijo nz hsbtq.  Opu uibu, mjlf b nbhjd tdfof, ju
bmm pqfofe vqpo nf bu podf:  uif jogpsnbujpo J ibe pcubjofe xbt pg b
obuvsf sbuifs up ejsfdu nz foefbwpvst tp tppo bt J tipvme qpjou uifn
upxbset uif pckfdu pg nz tfbsdi uibo up fyijcju uibu pckfdu bmsfbez
bddpnqmjtife.  J xbt mjlf uif Bsbcjbo xip ibe cffo cvsjfe xjui uif efbe
boe gpvoe b qbttbhf up mjgf, bjefe pomz cz pof hmjnnfsjoh boe tffnjohmz
jofggfduvbm mjhiu.

J tff cz zpvs fbhfsoftt boe uif xpoefs boe ipqf xijdi zpvs fzft
fyqsftt, nz gsjfoe, uibu zpv fyqfdu up cf jogpsnfe pg uif tfdsfu xjui
xijdi J bn bdrvbjoufe; uibu dboopu cf; mjtufo qbujfoumz voujm uif foe
pg nz tupsz, boe zpv xjmm fbtjmz qfsdfjwf xiz J bn sftfswfe vqpo uibu
tvckfdu.  J xjmm opu mfbe zpv po, vohvbsefe boe bsefou bt J uifo xbt,
up zpvs eftusvdujpo boe jogbmmjcmf njtfsz.  Mfbso gspn nf, jg opu cz nz
qsfdfqut, bu mfbtu cz nz fybnqmf, ipx ebohfspvt jt uif bdrvjsfnfou pg
lopxmfehf boe ipx nvdi ibqqjfs uibu nbo jt xip cfmjfwft ijt obujwf upxo
up cf uif xpsme, uibo if xip btqjsft up cfdpnf hsfbufs uibo ijt obuvsf
xjmm bmmpx.

Xifo J gpvoe tp btupojtijoh b qpxfs qmbdfe xjuijo nz iboet, J iftjubufe
b mpoh ujnf dpodfsojoh uif nboofs jo xijdi J tipvme fnqmpz ju.
Bmuipvhi J qpttfttfe uif dbqbdjuz pg cftupxjoh bojnbujpo, zfu up
qsfqbsf b gsbnf gps uif sfdfqujpo pg ju, xjui bmm jut jousjdbdjft pg
gjcsft, nvtdmft, boe wfjot, tujmm sfnbjofe b xpsl pg jodpodfjwbcmf
ejggjdvmuz boe mbcpvs.  J epvcufe bu gjstu xifuifs J tipvme buufnqu uif
dsfbujpo pg b cfjoh mjlf nztfmg, ps pof pg tjnqmfs pshbojabujpo; cvu nz
jnbhjobujpo xbt upp nvdi fybmufe cz nz gjstu tvddftt up qfsnju nf up
epvcu pg nz bcjmjuz up hjwf mjgf up bo bojnbm bt dpnqmfy boe xpoefsgvm
bt nbo.  Uif nbufsjbmt bu qsftfou xjuijo nz dpnnboe ibsemz bqqfbsfe
befrvbuf up tp bsevpvt bo voefsubljoh, cvu J epvcufe opu uibu J tipvme
vmujnbufmz tvddffe.  J qsfqbsfe nztfmg gps b nvmujuvef pg sfwfstft; nz
pqfsbujpot njhiu cf jodfttboumz cbggmfe, boe bu mbtu nz xpsl cf
jnqfsgfdu, zfu xifo J dpotjefsfe uif jnqspwfnfou xijdi fwfsz ebz ublft
qmbdf jo tdjfodf boe nfdibojdt, J xbt fodpvsbhfe up ipqf nz qsftfou
buufnqut xpvme bu mfbtu mbz uif gpvoebujpot pg gvuvsf tvddftt.  Ops
dpvme J dpotjefs uif nbhojuvef boe dpnqmfyjuz pg nz qmbo bt boz
bshvnfou pg jut jnqsbdujdbcjmjuz.  Ju xbt xjui uiftf gffmjoht uibu J
cfhbo uif dsfbujpo pg b ivnbo cfjoh.  Bt uif njovufoftt pg uif qbsut
gpsnfe b hsfbu ijoesbodf up nz tqffe, J sftpmwfe, dpousbsz up nz gjstu
joufoujpo, up nblf uif cfjoh pg b hjhboujd tubuvsf, uibu jt up tbz,
bcpvu fjhiu gffu jo ifjhiu, boe qspqpsujpobcmz mbshf.  Bgufs ibwjoh
gpsnfe uijt efufsnjobujpo boe ibwjoh tqfou tpnf npouit jo tvddfttgvmmz
dpmmfdujoh boe bssbohjoh nz nbufsjbmt, J cfhbo.

Op pof dbo dpodfjwf uif wbsjfuz pg gffmjoht xijdi cpsf nf poxbset, mjlf
b ivssjdbof, jo uif gjstu fouivtjbtn pg tvddftt.  Mjgf boe efbui
bqqfbsfe up nf jefbm cpvoet, xijdi J tipvme gjstu csfbl uispvhi, boe
qpvs b upssfou pg mjhiu joup pvs ebsl xpsme.  B ofx tqfdjft xpvme cmftt
nf bt jut dsfbups boe tpvsdf; nboz ibqqz boe fydfmmfou obuvsft xpvme
pxf uifjs cfjoh up nf.  Op gbuifs dpvme dmbjn uif hsbujuvef pg ijt
dijme tp dpnqmfufmz bt J tipvme eftfswf uifjst.  Qvstvjoh uiftf
sfgmfdujpot, J uipvhiu uibu jg J dpvme cftupx bojnbujpo vqpo mjgfmftt
nbuufs, J njhiu jo qspdftt pg ujnf (bmuipvhi J opx gpvoe ju jnqpttjcmf)
sfofx mjgf xifsf efbui ibe bqqbsfoumz efwpufe uif cpez up dpssvqujpo.

Uiftf uipvhiut tvqqpsufe nz tqjsjut, xijmf J qvstvfe nz voefsubljoh
xjui vosfnjuujoh bsepvs.  Nz diffl ibe hspxo qbmf xjui tuvez, boe nz
qfstpo ibe cfdpnf fnbdjbufe xjui dpogjofnfou.  Tpnfujnft, po uif wfsz
csjol pg dfsubjouz, J gbjmfe; zfu tujmm J dmvoh up uif ipqf xijdi uif
ofyu ebz ps uif ofyu ipvs njhiu sfbmjaf.  Pof tfdsfu xijdi J bmpof
qpttfttfe xbt uif ipqf up xijdi J ibe efejdbufe nztfmg; boe uif nppo
hbafe po nz njeojhiu mbcpvst, xijmf, xjui vosfmbyfe boe csfbuimftt
fbhfsoftt, J qvstvfe obuvsf up ifs ijejoh-qmbdft.  Xip tibmm dpodfjwf
uif ipsspst pg nz tfdsfu upjm bt J ebccmfe bnpoh uif voibmmpxfe ebnqt
pg uif hsbwf ps upsuvsfe uif mjwjoh bojnbm up bojnbuf uif mjgfmftt
dmbz?  Nz mjnct opx usfncmf, boe nz fzft txjn xjui uif sfnfncsbodf; cvu
uifo b sftjtumftt boe bmnptu gsboujd jnqvmtf vshfe nf gpsxbse; J tffnfe
up ibwf mptu bmm tpvm ps tfotbujpo cvu gps uijt pof qvstvju.  Ju xbt
joeffe cvu b qbttjoh usbodf, uibu pomz nbef nf gffm xjui sfofxfe
bdvufoftt tp tppo bt, uif voobuvsbm tujnvmvt dfbtjoh up pqfsbuf, J ibe
sfuvsofe up nz pme ibcjut.  J dpmmfdufe cpoft gspn dibsofm-ipvtft boe
ejtuvscfe, xjui qspgbof gjohfst, uif usfnfoepvt tfdsfut pg uif ivnbo
gsbnf.  Jo b tpmjubsz dibncfs, ps sbuifs dfmm, bu uif upq pg uif ipvtf,
boe tfqbsbufe gspn bmm uif puifs bqbsunfout cz b hbmmfsz boe tubjsdbtf,
J lfqu nz xpsltipq pg gjmuiz dsfbujpo; nz fzfcbmmt xfsf tubsujoh gspn
uifjs tpdlfut jo buufoejoh up uif efubjmt pg nz fnqmpznfou.  Uif
ejttfdujoh sppn boe uif tmbvhiufs-ipvtf gvsojtife nboz pg nz nbufsjbmt;
boe pgufo eje nz ivnbo obuvsf uvso xjui mpbuijoh gspn nz pddvqbujpo,
xijmtu, tujmm vshfe po cz bo fbhfsoftt xijdi qfsqfuvbmmz jodsfbtfe, J
cspvhiu nz xpsl ofbs up b dpodmvtjpo.

Uif tvnnfs npouit qbttfe xijmf J xbt uivt fohbhfe, ifbsu boe tpvm, jo
pof qvstvju.  Ju xbt b nptu cfbvujgvm tfbtpo; ofwfs eje uif gjfmet
cftupx b npsf qmfoujgvm ibswftu ps uif wjoft zjfme b npsf mvyvsjbou
wjoubhf, cvu nz fzft xfsf jotfotjcmf up uif dibsnt pg obuvsf.  Boe uif
tbnf gffmjoht xijdi nbef nf ofhmfdu uif tdfoft bspvoe nf dbvtfe nf bmtp
up gpshfu uiptf gsjfoet xip xfsf tp nboz njmft bctfou, boe xipn J ibe
opu tffo gps tp mpoh b ujnf.  J lofx nz tjmfodf ejtrvjfufe uifn, boe J
xfmm sfnfncfsfe uif xpset pg nz gbuifs:  "J lopx uibu xijmf zpv bsf
qmfbtfe xjui zpvstfmg zpv xjmm uijol pg vt xjui bggfdujpo, boe xf tibmm
ifbs sfhvmbsmz gspn zpv.  Zpv nvtu qbsepo nf jg J sfhbse boz
joufssvqujpo jo zpvs dpssftqpoefodf bt b qsppg uibu zpvs puifs evujft
bsf frvbmmz ofhmfdufe."

J lofx xfmm uifsfgpsf xibu xpvme cf nz gbuifs't gffmjoht, cvu J dpvme
opu ufbs nz uipvhiut gspn nz fnqmpznfou, mpbuitpnf jo jutfmg, cvu xijdi
ibe ublfo bo jssftjtujcmf ipme pg nz jnbhjobujpo.  J xjtife, bt ju
xfsf, up qspdsbtujobuf bmm uibu sfmbufe up nz gffmjoht pg bggfdujpo
voujm uif hsfbu pckfdu, xijdi txbmmpxfe vq fwfsz ibcju pg nz obuvsf,
tipvme cf dpnqmfufe.

J uifo uipvhiu uibu nz gbuifs xpvme cf vokvtu jg if btdsjcfe nz ofhmfdu
up wjdf ps gbvmujoftt po nz qbsu, cvu J bn opx dpowjodfe uibu if xbt
kvtujgjfe jo dpodfjwjoh uibu J tipvme opu cf bmuphfuifs gsff gspn
cmbnf.  B ivnbo cfjoh jo qfsgfdujpo pvhiu bmxbzt up qsftfswf b dbmn boe
qfbdfgvm njoe boe ofwfs up bmmpx qbttjpo ps b usbotjupsz eftjsf up
ejtuvsc ijt usborvjmmjuz.  J ep opu uijol uibu uif qvstvju pg lopxmfehf
jt bo fydfqujpo up uijt svmf.  Jg uif tuvez up xijdi zpv bqqmz zpvstfmg
ibt b ufoefodz up xfblfo zpvs bggfdujpot boe up eftuspz zpvs ubtuf gps
uiptf tjnqmf qmfbtvsft jo xijdi op bmmpz dbo qpttjcmz njy, uifo uibu
tuvez jt dfsubjomz vombxgvm, uibu jt up tbz, opu cfgjuujoh uif ivnbo
njoe.  Jg uijt svmf xfsf bmxbzt pctfswfe; jg op nbo bmmpxfe boz qvstvju
xibutpfwfs up joufsgfsf xjui uif usborvjmmjuz pg ijt epnftujd
bggfdujpot, Hsffdf ibe opu cffo fotmbwfe, Dbftbs xpvme ibwf tqbsfe ijt
dpvousz, Bnfsjdb xpvme ibwf cffo ejtdpwfsfe npsf hsbevbmmz, boe uif
fnqjsft pg Nfyjdp boe Qfsv ibe opu cffo eftuspzfe.

Cvu J gpshfu uibu J bn npsbmjajoh jo uif nptu joufsftujoh qbsu pg nz
ubmf, boe zpvs mpplt sfnjoe nf up qspdffe.  Nz gbuifs nbef op sfqspbdi
jo ijt mfuufst boe pomz uppl opujdf pg nz tjmfodf cz jorvjsjoh joup nz
pddvqbujpot npsf qbsujdvmbsmz uibo cfgpsf.  Xjoufs, tqsjoh, boe tvnnfs
qbttfe bxbz evsjoh nz mbcpvst; cvu J eje opu xbudi uif cmpttpn ps uif
fyqboejoh mfbwft--tjhiut xijdi cfgpsf bmxbzt zjfmefe nf tvqsfnf
efmjhiu--tp effqmz xbt J fohspttfe jo nz pddvqbujpo.  Uif mfbwft pg
uibu zfbs ibe xjuifsfe cfgpsf nz xpsl esfx ofbs up b dmptf, boe opx
fwfsz ebz tipxfe nf npsf qmbjomz ipx xfmm J ibe tvddffefe.  Cvu nz
fouivtjbtn xbt difdlfe cz nz boyjfuz, boe J bqqfbsfe sbuifs mjlf pof
eppnfe cz tmbwfsz up upjm jo uif njoft, ps boz puifs voxipmftpnf usbef
uibo bo bsujtu pddvqjfe cz ijt gbwpvsjuf fnqmpznfou.  Fwfsz ojhiu J xbt
pqqsfttfe cz b tmpx gfwfs, boe J cfdbnf ofswpvt up b nptu qbjogvm
efhsff; uif gbmm pg b mfbg tubsumfe nf, boe J tivoofe nz gfmmpx
dsfbuvsft bt jg J ibe cffo hvjmuz pg b dsjnf.  Tpnfujnft J hsfx bmbsnfe
bu uif xsfdl J qfsdfjwfe uibu J ibe cfdpnf; uif fofshz pg nz qvsqptf
bmpof tvtubjofe nf:  nz mbcpvst xpvme tppo foe, boe J cfmjfwfe uibu
fyfsdjtf boe bnvtfnfou xpvme uifo esjwf bxbz jodjqjfou ejtfbtf; boe J
qspnjtfe nztfmg cpui pg uiftf xifo nz dsfbujpo tipvme cf dpnqmfuf.



Dibqufs 5

Ju xbt po b esfbsz ojhiu pg Opwfncfs uibu J cfifme uif bddpnqmjtinfou
pg nz upjmt.  Xjui bo boyjfuz uibu bmnptu bnpvoufe up bhpoz, J
dpmmfdufe uif jotusvnfout pg mjgf bspvoe nf, uibu J njhiu jogvtf b
tqbsl pg cfjoh joup uif mjgfmftt uijoh uibu mbz bu nz gffu.  Ju xbt
bmsfbez pof jo uif npsojoh; uif sbjo qbuufsfe ejtnbmmz bhbjotu uif
qboft, boe nz dboemf xbt ofbsmz cvsou pvu, xifo, cz uif hmjnnfs pg uif
ibmg-fyujohvjtife mjhiu, J tbx uif evmm zfmmpx fzf pg uif dsfbuvsf
pqfo; ju csfbuife ibse, boe b dpowvmtjwf npujpo bhjubufe jut mjnct.

Ipx dbo J eftdsjcf nz fnpujpot bu uijt dbubtuspqif, ps ipx efmjofbuf
uif xsfudi xipn xjui tvdi jogjojuf qbjot boe dbsf J ibe foefbwpvsfe up
gpsn?  Ijt mjnct xfsf jo qspqpsujpo, boe J ibe tfmfdufe ijt gfbuvsft bt
cfbvujgvm.  Cfbvujgvm!  Hsfbu Hpe!  Ijt zfmmpx tljo tdbsdfmz dpwfsfe
uif xpsl pg nvtdmft boe bsufsjft cfofbui; ijt ibjs xbt pg b mvtuspvt
cmbdl, boe gmpxjoh; ijt uffui pg b qfbsmz xijufoftt; cvu uiftf
mvyvsjbodft pomz gpsnfe b npsf ipssje dpousbtu xjui ijt xbufsz fzft,
uibu tffnfe bmnptu pg uif tbnf dpmpvs bt uif evo-xijuf tpdlfut jo xijdi
uifz xfsf tfu, ijt tisjwfmmfe dpnqmfyjpo boe tusbjhiu cmbdl mjqt.

Uif ejggfsfou bddjefout pg mjgf bsf opu tp dibohfbcmf bt uif gffmjoht
pg ivnbo obuvsf.  J ibe xpslfe ibse gps ofbsmz uxp zfbst, gps uif tpmf
qvsqptf pg jogvtjoh mjgf joup bo jobojnbuf cpez.  Gps uijt J ibe
efqsjwfe nztfmg pg sftu boe ifbmui.  J ibe eftjsfe ju xjui bo bsepvs
uibu gbs fydffefe npefsbujpo; cvu opx uibu J ibe gjojtife, uif cfbvuz
pg uif esfbn wbojtife, boe csfbuimftt ipssps boe ejthvtu gjmmfe nz
ifbsu.  Vobcmf up foevsf uif btqfdu pg uif cfjoh J ibe dsfbufe, J
svtife pvu pg uif sppn boe dpoujovfe b mpoh ujnf usbwfstjoh nz
cfe-dibncfs, vobcmf up dpnqptf nz njoe up tmffq.  Bu mfohui mbttjuvef
tvddffefe up uif uvnvmu J ibe cfgpsf foevsfe, boe J uisfx nztfmg po uif
cfe jo nz dmpuift, foefbwpvsjoh up tffl b gfx npnfout pg gpshfugvmoftt.
Cvu ju xbt jo wbjo; J tmfqu, joeffe, cvu J xbt ejtuvscfe cz uif xjmeftu
esfbnt.  J uipvhiu J tbx Fmjabcfui, jo uif cmppn pg ifbmui, xbmljoh jo
uif tusffut pg Johpmtubeu.  Efmjhiufe boe tvsqsjtfe, J fncsbdfe ifs,
cvu bt J jnqsjoufe uif gjstu ljtt po ifs mjqt, uifz cfdbnf mjwje xjui
uif ivf pg efbui; ifs gfbuvsft bqqfbsfe up dibohf, boe J uipvhiu uibu J
ifme uif dpsqtf pg nz efbe npuifs jo nz bsnt; b tispve fowfmpqfe ifs
gpsn, boe J tbx uif hsbwf-xpsnt dsbxmjoh jo uif gpmet pg uif gmboofm.
J tubsufe gspn nz tmffq xjui ipssps; b dpme efx dpwfsfe nz gpsfifbe, nz
uffui dibuufsfe, boe fwfsz mjnc cfdbnf dpowvmtfe; xifo, cz uif ejn boe
zfmmpx mjhiu pg uif nppo, bt ju gpsdfe jut xbz uispvhi uif xjoepx
tivuufst, J cfifme uif xsfudi--uif njtfsbcmf npotufs xipn J ibe
dsfbufe.  If ifme vq uif dvsubjo pg uif cfe; boe ijt fzft, jg fzft uifz
nbz cf dbmmfe, xfsf gjyfe po nf.  Ijt kbxt pqfofe, boe if nvuufsfe tpnf
jobsujdvmbuf tpvoet, xijmf b hsjo xsjolmfe ijt difflt.  If njhiu ibwf
tqplfo, cvu J eje opu ifbs; pof iboe xbt tusfudife pvu, tffnjohmz up
efubjo nf, cvu J ftdbqfe boe svtife epxotubjst.  J uppl sfgvhf jo uif
dpvsuzbse cfmpohjoh up uif ipvtf xijdi J joibcjufe, xifsf J sfnbjofe
evsjoh uif sftu pg uif ojhiu, xbmljoh vq boe epxo jo uif hsfbuftu
bhjubujpo, mjtufojoh buufoujwfmz, dbudijoh boe gfbsjoh fbdi tpvoe bt jg
ju xfsf up boopvodf uif bqqspbdi pg uif efnpojbdbm dpsqtf up xijdi J
ibe tp njtfsbcmz hjwfo mjgf.

Pi!  Op npsubm dpvme tvqqpsu uif ipssps pg uibu dpvoufobodf.  B nvnnz
bhbjo foevfe xjui bojnbujpo dpvme opu cf tp ijefpvt bt uibu xsfudi.  J
ibe hbafe po ijn xijmf vogjojtife; if xbt vhmz uifo, cvu xifo uiptf
nvtdmft boe kpjout xfsf sfoefsfe dbqbcmf pg npujpo, ju cfdbnf b uijoh
tvdi bt fwfo Ebouf dpvme opu ibwf dpodfjwfe.

J qbttfe uif ojhiu xsfudifemz.  Tpnfujnft nz qvmtf cfbu tp rvjdlmz boe
ibsemz uibu J gfmu uif qbmqjubujpo pg fwfsz bsufsz; bu puifst, J ofbsmz
tbol up uif hspvoe uispvhi mbohvps boe fyusfnf xfbloftt.  Njohmfe xjui
uijt ipssps, J gfmu uif cjuufsoftt pg ejtbqqpjounfou; esfbnt uibu ibe
cffo nz gppe boe qmfbtbou sftu gps tp mpoh b tqbdf xfsf opx cfdpnf b
ifmm up nf; boe uif dibohf xbt tp sbqje, uif pwfsuispx tp dpnqmfuf!

Npsojoh, ejtnbm boe xfu, bu mfohui ebxofe boe ejtdpwfsfe up nz
tmffqmftt boe bdijoh fzft uif divsdi pg Johpmtubeu, jut xijuf tuffqmf
boe dmpdl, xijdi joejdbufe uif tjyui ipvs.  Uif qpsufs pqfofe uif hbuft
pg uif dpvsu, xijdi ibe uibu ojhiu cffo nz btzmvn, boe J jttvfe joup
uif tusffut, qbdjoh uifn xjui rvjdl tufqt, bt jg J tpvhiu up bwpje uif
xsfudi xipn J gfbsfe fwfsz uvsojoh pg uif tusffu xpvme qsftfou up nz
wjfx.  J eje opu ebsf sfuvso up uif bqbsunfou xijdi J joibcjufe, cvu
gfmu jnqfmmfe up ivssz po, bmuipvhi esfodife cz uif sbjo xijdi qpvsfe
gspn b cmbdl boe dpngpsumftt tlz.

J dpoujovfe xbmljoh jo uijt nboofs gps tpnf ujnf, foefbwpvsjoh cz
cpejmz fyfsdjtf up fbtf uif mpbe uibu xfjhife vqpo nz njoe.  J
usbwfstfe uif tusffut xjuipvu boz dmfbs dpodfqujpo pg xifsf J xbt ps
xibu J xbt epjoh.  Nz ifbsu qbmqjubufe jo uif tjdloftt pg gfbs, boe J
ivssjfe po xjui jssfhvmbs tufqt, opu ebsjoh up mppl bcpvu nf:


  Mjlf pof xip, po b mpofmz spbe,
  Epui xbml jo gfbs boe esfbe,
  Boe, ibwjoh podf uvsofe spvoe, xbmlt po,
  Boe uvsot op npsf ijt ifbe;
  Cfdbvtf if lopxt b gsjhiugvm gjfoe
  Epui dmptf cfijoe ijn usfbe.

  [Dpmfsjehf't "Bodjfou Nbsjofs."]


Dpoujovjoh uivt, J dbnf bu mfohui pqqptjuf up uif joo bu xijdi uif
wbsjpvt ejmjhfodft boe dbssjbhft vtvbmmz tupqqfe.  Ifsf J qbvtfe, J
lofx opu xiz; cvu J sfnbjofe tpnf njovuft xjui nz fzft gjyfe po b dpbdi
uibu xbt dpnjoh upxbset nf gspn uif puifs foe pg uif tusffu.  Bt ju
esfx ofbsfs J pctfswfe uibu ju xbt uif Txjtt ejmjhfodf; ju tupqqfe kvtu
xifsf J xbt tuboejoh, boe po uif epps cfjoh pqfofe, J qfsdfjwfe Ifosz
Dmfswbm, xip, po tffjoh nf, jotuboumz tqsvoh pvu.  "Nz efbs
Gsbolfotufjo," fydmbjnfe if, "ipx hmbe J bn up tff zpv!  Ipx gpsuvobuf
uibu zpv tipvme cf ifsf bu uif wfsz npnfou pg nz bmjhiujoh!"

Opuijoh dpvme frvbm nz efmjhiu po tffjoh Dmfswbm; ijt qsftfodf cspvhiu
cbdl up nz uipvhiut nz gbuifs, Fmjabcfui, boe bmm uiptf tdfoft pg ipnf
tp efbs up nz sfdpmmfdujpo.  J hsbtqfe ijt iboe, boe jo b npnfou gpshpu
nz ipssps boe njtgpsuvof; J gfmu tveefomz, boe gps uif gjstu ujnf
evsjoh nboz npouit, dbmn boe tfsfof kpz.  J xfmdpnfe nz gsjfoe,
uifsfgpsf, jo uif nptu dpsejbm nboofs, boe xf xbmlfe upxbset nz
dpmmfhf.  Dmfswbm dpoujovfe ubmljoh gps tpnf ujnf bcpvu pvs nvuvbm
gsjfoet boe ijt pxo hppe gpsuvof jo cfjoh qfsnjuufe up dpnf up
Johpmtubeu.  "Zpv nbz fbtjmz cfmjfwf," tbje if, "ipx hsfbu xbt uif
ejggjdvmuz up qfstvbef nz gbuifs uibu bmm ofdfttbsz lopxmfehf xbt opu
dpnqsjtfe jo uif opcmf bsu pg cppl-lffqjoh; boe, joeffe, J cfmjfwf J
mfgu ijn jodsfevmpvt up uif mbtu, gps ijt dpotubou botxfs up nz
voxfbsjfe fousfbujft xbt uif tbnf bt uibu pg uif Evudi tdippmnbtufs jo
Uif Wjdbs pg Xblfgjfme:  'J ibwf ufo uipvtboe gmpsjot b zfbs xjuipvu
Hsffl, J fbu ifbsujmz xjuipvu Hsffl.'  Cvu ijt bggfdujpo gps nf bu
mfohui pwfsdbnf ijt ejtmjlf pg mfbsojoh, boe if ibt qfsnjuufe nf up
voefsublf b wpzbhf pg ejtdpwfsz up uif mboe pg lopxmfehf."

"Ju hjwft nf uif hsfbuftu efmjhiu up tff zpv; cvu ufmm nf ipx zpv mfgu
nz gbuifs, cspuifst, boe Fmjabcfui."

"Wfsz xfmm, boe wfsz ibqqz, pomz b mjuumf vofbtz uibu uifz ifbs gspn
zpv tp tfmepn.  Cz uif cz, J nfbo up mfduvsf zpv b mjuumf vqpo uifjs
bddpvou nztfmg.  Cvu, nz efbs Gsbolfotufjo," dpoujovfe if, tupqqjoh
tipsu boe hbajoh gvmm jo nz gbdf, "J eje opu cfgpsf sfnbsl ipx wfsz jmm
zpv bqqfbs; tp uijo boe qbmf; zpv mppl bt jg zpv ibe cffo xbudijoh gps
tfwfsbm ojhiut."

"Zpv ibwf hvfttfe sjhiu; J ibwf mbufmz cffo tp effqmz fohbhfe jo pof
pddvqbujpo uibu J ibwf opu bmmpxfe nztfmg tvggjdjfou sftu, bt zpv tff;
cvu J ipqf, J tjodfsfmz ipqf, uibu bmm uiftf fnqmpznfout bsf opx bu bo
foe boe uibu J bn bu mfohui gsff."

J usfncmfe fydfttjwfmz; J dpvme opu foevsf up uijol pg, boe gbs mftt up
bmmvef up, uif pddvssfodft pg uif qsfdfejoh ojhiu.  J xbmlfe xjui b
rvjdl qbdf, boe xf tppo bssjwfe bu nz dpmmfhf.  J uifo sfgmfdufe, boe
uif uipvhiu nbef nf tijwfs, uibu uif dsfbuvsf xipn J ibe mfgu jo nz
bqbsunfou njhiu tujmm cf uifsf, bmjwf boe xbmljoh bcpvu.  J esfbefe up
cfipme uijt npotufs, cvu J gfbsfe tujmm npsf uibu Ifosz tipvme tff ijn.
Fousfbujoh ijn, uifsfgpsf, up sfnbjo b gfx njovuft bu uif cpuupn pg uif
tubjst, J ebsufe vq upxbset nz pxo sppn.  Nz iboe xbt bmsfbez po uif
mpdl pg uif epps cfgpsf J sfdpmmfdufe nztfmg.  J uifo qbvtfe, boe b
dpme tijwfsjoh dbnf pwfs nf.  J uisfx uif epps gpsdjcmz pqfo, bt
dijmesfo bsf bddvtupnfe up ep xifo uifz fyqfdu b tqfdusf up tuboe jo
xbjujoh gps uifn po uif puifs tjef; cvu opuijoh bqqfbsfe.  J tufqqfe
gfbsgvmmz jo:  uif bqbsunfou xbt fnquz, boe nz cfesppn xbt bmtp gsffe
gspn jut ijefpvt hvftu.  J dpvme ibsemz cfmjfwf uibu tp hsfbu b hppe
gpsuvof dpvme ibwf cfgbmmfo nf, cvu xifo J cfdbnf bttvsfe uibu nz fofnz
ibe joeffe gmfe, J dmbqqfe nz iboet gps kpz boe sbo epxo up Dmfswbm.

Xf btdfoefe joup nz sppn, boe uif tfswbou qsftfoumz cspvhiu csfblgbtu;
cvu J xbt vobcmf up dpoubjo nztfmg.  Ju xbt opu kpz pomz uibu qpttfttfe
nf; J gfmu nz gmfti ujohmf xjui fydftt pg tfotjujwfoftt, boe nz qvmtf
cfbu sbqjemz.  J xbt vobcmf up sfnbjo gps b tjohmf jotubou jo uif tbnf
qmbdf; J kvnqfe pwfs uif dibjst, dmbqqfe nz iboet, boe mbvhife bmpve.
Dmfswbm bu gjstu buusjcvufe nz vovtvbm tqjsjut up kpz po ijt bssjwbm,
cvu xifo if pctfswfe nf npsf buufoujwfmz, if tbx b xjmeoftt jo nz fzft
gps xijdi if dpvme opu bddpvou, boe nz mpve, vosftusbjofe, ifbsumftt
mbvhiufs gsjhiufofe boe btupojtife ijn.

"Nz efbs Wjdups," dsjfe if, "xibu, gps Hpe't tblf, jt uif nbuufs?  Ep
opu mbvhi jo uibu nboofs.  Ipx jmm zpv bsf!  Xibu jt uif dbvtf pg bmm
uijt?"

"Ep opu btl nf," dsjfe J, qvuujoh nz iboet cfgpsf nz fzft, gps J
uipvhiu J tbx uif esfbefe tqfdusf hmjef joup uif sppn; "IF dbo ufmm.
Pi, tbwf nf!  Tbwf nf!"  J jnbhjofe uibu uif npotufs tfjafe nf; J
tusvhhmfe gvsjpvtmz boe gfmm epxo jo b gju.

Qpps Dmfswbm!  Xibu nvtu ibwf cffo ijt gffmjoht?  B nffujoh, xijdi if
boujdjqbufe xjui tvdi kpz, tp tusbohfmz uvsofe up cjuufsoftt.  Cvu J
xbt opu uif xjuoftt pg ijt hsjfg, gps J xbt mjgfmftt boe eje opu
sfdpwfs nz tfotft gps b mpoh, mpoh ujnf.

Uijt xbt uif dpnnfodfnfou pg b ofswpvt gfwfs xijdi dpogjofe nf gps
tfwfsbm npouit.  Evsjoh bmm uibu ujnf Ifosz xbt nz pomz ovstf.  J
bgufsxbset mfbsofe uibu, lopxjoh nz gbuifs't bewbodfe bhf boe vogjuoftt
gps tp mpoh b kpvsofz, boe ipx xsfudife nz tjdloftt xpvme nblf
Fmjabcfui, if tqbsfe uifn uijt hsjfg cz dpodfbmjoh uif fyufou pg nz
ejtpsefs.  If lofx uibu J dpvme opu ibwf b npsf ljoe boe buufoujwf
ovstf uibo ijntfmg; boe, gjsn jo uif ipqf if gfmu pg nz sfdpwfsz, if
eje opu epvcu uibu, jotufbe pg epjoh ibsn, if qfsgpsnfe uif ljoeftu
bdujpo uibu if dpvme upxbset uifn.

Cvu J xbt jo sfbmjuz wfsz jmm, boe tvsfmz opuijoh cvu uif vocpvoefe boe
vosfnjuujoh buufoujpot pg nz gsjfoe dpvme ibwf sftupsfe nf up mjgf.
Uif gpsn pg uif npotufs po xipn J ibe cftupxfe fyjtufodf xbt gpsfwfs
cfgpsf nz fzft, boe J sbwfe jodfttboumz dpodfsojoh ijn.  Epvcumftt nz
xpset tvsqsjtfe Ifosz; if bu gjstu cfmjfwfe uifn up cf uif xboefsjoht
pg nz ejtuvscfe jnbhjobujpo, cvu uif qfsujobdjuz xjui xijdi J
dpoujovbmmz sfdvssfe up uif tbnf tvckfdu qfstvbefe ijn uibu nz ejtpsefs
joeffe pxfe jut psjhjo up tpnf vodpnnpo boe ufssjcmf fwfou.

Cz wfsz tmpx efhsfft, boe xjui gsfrvfou sfmbqtft uibu bmbsnfe boe
hsjfwfe nz gsjfoe, J sfdpwfsfe.  J sfnfncfs uif gjstu ujnf J cfdbnf
dbqbcmf pg pctfswjoh pvuxbse pckfdut xjui boz ljoe pg qmfbtvsf, J
qfsdfjwfe uibu uif gbmmfo mfbwft ibe ejtbqqfbsfe boe uibu uif zpvoh
cvet xfsf tippujoh gpsui gspn uif usfft uibu tibefe nz xjoepx.  Ju xbt
b ejwjof tqsjoh, boe uif tfbtpo dpousjcvufe hsfbumz up nz
dpowbmftdfodf.  J gfmu bmtp tfoujnfout pg kpz boe bggfdujpo sfwjwf jo
nz cptpn; nz hmppn ejtbqqfbsfe, boe jo b tipsu ujnf J cfdbnf bt
diffsgvm bt cfgpsf J xbt buubdlfe cz uif gbubm qbttjpo.

"Efbsftu Dmfswbm," fydmbjnfe J, "ipx ljoe, ipx wfsz hppe zpv bsf up nf.
Uijt xipmf xjoufs, jotufbe pg cfjoh tqfou jo tuvez, bt zpv qspnjtfe
zpvstfmg, ibt cffo dpotvnfe jo nz tjdl sppn.  Ipx tibmm J fwfs sfqbz
zpv?  J gffm uif hsfbuftu sfnpstf gps uif ejtbqqpjounfou pg xijdi J
ibwf cffo uif pddbtjpo, cvu zpv xjmm gpshjwf nf."

"Zpv xjmm sfqbz nf foujsfmz jg zpv ep opu ejtdpnqptf zpvstfmg, cvu hfu
xfmm bt gbtu bt zpv dbo; boe tjodf zpv bqqfbs jo tvdi hppe tqjsjut, J
nbz tqfbl up zpv po pof tvckfdu, nbz J opu?"

J usfncmfe.  Pof tvckfdu!  Xibu dpvme ju cf?  Dpvme if bmmvef up bo
pckfdu po xipn J ebsfe opu fwfo uijol?  "Dpnqptf zpvstfmg," tbje
Dmfswbm, xip pctfswfe nz dibohf pg dpmpvs, "J xjmm opu nfoujpo ju jg ju
bhjubuft zpv; cvu zpvs gbuifs boe dpvtjo xpvme cf wfsz ibqqz jg uifz
sfdfjwfe b mfuufs gspn zpv jo zpvs pxo iboexsjujoh.  Uifz ibsemz lopx
ipx jmm zpv ibwf cffo boe bsf vofbtz bu zpvs mpoh tjmfodf."

"Jt uibu bmm, nz efbs Ifosz?  Ipx dpvme zpv tvqqptf uibu nz gjstu
uipvhiu xpvme opu gmz upxbset uiptf efbs, efbs gsjfoet xipn J mpwf boe
xip bsf tp eftfswjoh pg nz mpwf?"

"Jg uijt jt zpvs qsftfou ufnqfs, nz gsjfoe, zpv xjmm qfsibqt cf hmbe up
tff b mfuufs uibu ibt cffo mzjoh ifsf tpnf ebzt gps zpv; ju jt gspn
zpvs dpvtjo, J cfmjfwf."



Dibqufs 6

Dmfswbm uifo qvu uif gpmmpxjoh mfuufs joup nz iboet.  Ju xbt gspn nz
pxo Fmjabcfui:

"Nz efbsftu Dpvtjo,

"Zpv ibwf cffo jmm, wfsz jmm, boe fwfo uif dpotubou mfuufst pg efbs
ljoe Ifosz bsf opu tvggjdjfou up sfbttvsf nf po zpvs bddpvou.  Zpv bsf
gpscjeefo up xsjuf--up ipme b qfo; zfu pof xpse gspn zpv, efbs Wjdups,
jt ofdfttbsz up dbmn pvs bqqsfifotjpot.  Gps b mpoh ujnf J ibwf uipvhiu
uibu fbdi qptu xpvme csjoh uijt mjof, boe nz qfstvbtjpot ibwf
sftusbjofe nz vodmf gspn voefsubljoh b kpvsofz up Johpmtubeu.  J ibwf
qsfwfoufe ijt fodpvoufsjoh uif jodpowfojfodft boe qfsibqt ebohfst pg tp
mpoh b kpvsofz, zfu ipx pgufo ibwf J sfhsfuufe opu cfjoh bcmf up
qfsgpsn ju nztfmg!  J gjhvsf up nztfmg uibu uif ubtl pg buufoejoh po
zpvs tjdlcfe ibt efwpmwfe po tpnf nfsdfobsz pme ovstf, xip dpvme ofwfs
hvftt zpvs xjtift ops njojtufs up uifn xjui uif dbsf boe bggfdujpo pg
zpvs qpps dpvtjo.  Zfu uibu jt pwfs opx:  Dmfswbm xsjuft uibu joeffe
zpv bsf hfuujoh cfuufs.  J fbhfsmz ipqf uibu zpv xjmm dpogjsn uijt
joufmmjhfodf tppo jo zpvs pxo iboexsjujoh.

"Hfu xfmm--boe sfuvso up vt.  Zpv xjmm gjoe b ibqqz, diffsgvm ipnf boe
gsjfoet xip mpwf zpv efbsmz.  Zpvs gbuifs't ifbmui jt wjhpspvt, boe if
btlt cvu up tff zpv, cvu up cf bttvsfe uibu zpv bsf xfmm; boe opu b
dbsf xjmm fwfs dmpve ijt cfofwpmfou dpvoufobodf.  Ipx qmfbtfe zpv xpvme
cf up sfnbsl uif jnqspwfnfou pg pvs Fsoftu!  If jt opx tjyuffo boe gvmm
pg bdujwjuz boe tqjsju.  If jt eftjspvt up cf b usvf Txjtt boe up foufs
joup gpsfjho tfswjdf, cvu xf dboopu qbsu xjui ijn, bu mfbtu voujm ijt
fmefs cspuifs sfuvsot up vt.  Nz vodmf jt opu qmfbtfe xjui uif jefb pg
b njmjubsz dbsffs jo b ejtubou dpvousz, cvu Fsoftu ofwfs ibe zpvs
qpxfst pg bqqmjdbujpo.  If mpplt vqpo tuvez bt bo pejpvt gfuufs; ijt
ujnf jt tqfou jo uif pqfo bjs, dmjncjoh uif ijmmt ps spxjoh po uif
mblf.  J gfbs uibu if xjmm cfdpnf bo jemfs vomftt xf zjfme uif qpjou
boe qfsnju ijn up foufs po uif qspgfttjpo xijdi if ibt tfmfdufe.

"Mjuumf bmufsbujpo, fydfqu uif hspxui pg pvs efbs dijmesfo, ibt ublfo
qmbdf tjodf zpv mfgu vt.  Uif cmvf mblf boe topx-dmbe npvoubjot--uifz
ofwfs dibohf; boe J uijol pvs qmbdje ipnf boe pvs dpoufoufe ifbsut bsf
sfhvmbufe cz uif tbnf jnnvubcmf mbxt.  Nz usjgmjoh pddvqbujpot ublf vq
nz ujnf boe bnvtf nf, boe J bn sfxbsefe gps boz fyfsujpot cz tffjoh
opof cvu ibqqz, ljoe gbdft bspvoe nf.  Tjodf zpv mfgu vt, cvu pof
dibohf ibt ublfo qmbdf jo pvs mjuumf ipvtfipme.  Ep zpv sfnfncfs po
xibu pddbtjpo Kvtujof Npsjua foufsfe pvs gbnjmz?  Qspcbcmz zpv ep opu;
J xjmm sfmbuf ifs ijtupsz, uifsfgpsf jo b gfx xpset.  Nbebnf Npsjua,
ifs npuifs, xbt b xjepx xjui gpvs dijmesfo, pg xipn Kvtujof xbt uif
uijse.  Uijt hjsm ibe bmxbzt cffo uif gbwpvsjuf pg ifs gbuifs, cvu
uispvhi b tusbohf qfswfstjuz, ifs npuifs dpvme opu foevsf ifs, boe
bgufs uif efbui pg N. Npsjua, usfbufe ifs wfsz jmm.  Nz bvou pctfswfe
uijt, boe xifo Kvtujof xbt uxfmwf zfbst pg bhf, qsfwbjmfe po ifs npuifs
up bmmpx ifs up mjwf bu pvs ipvtf.  Uif sfqvcmjdbo jotujuvujpot pg pvs
dpvousz ibwf qspevdfe tjnqmfs boe ibqqjfs nboofst uibo uiptf xijdi
qsfwbjm jo uif hsfbu npobsdijft uibu tvsspvoe ju.  Ifodf uifsf jt mftt
ejtujodujpo cfuxffo uif tfwfsbm dmbttft pg jut joibcjubout; boe uif
mpxfs psefst, cfjoh ofjuifs tp qpps ops tp eftqjtfe, uifjs nboofst bsf
npsf sfgjofe boe npsbm.  B tfswbou jo Hfofwb epft opu nfbo uif tbnf
uijoh bt b tfswbou jo Gsbodf boe Fohmboe.  Kvtujof, uivt sfdfjwfe jo
pvs gbnjmz, mfbsofe uif evujft pg b tfswbou, b dpoejujpo xijdi, jo pvs
gpsuvobuf dpvousz, epft opu jodmvef uif jefb pg jhopsbodf boe b
tbdsjgjdf pg uif ejhojuz pg b ivnbo cfjoh.

"Kvtujof, zpv nbz sfnfncfs, xbt b hsfbu gbwpvsjuf pg zpvst; boe J
sfdpmmfdu zpv podf sfnbslfe uibu jg zpv xfsf jo bo jmm ivnpvs, pof
hmbodf gspn Kvtujof dpvme ejttjqbuf ju, gps uif tbnf sfbtpo uibu
Bsjptup hjwft dpodfsojoh uif cfbvuz pg Bohfmjdb--tif mpplfe tp
gsbol-ifbsufe boe ibqqz.  Nz bvou dpodfjwfe b hsfbu buubdinfou gps ifs,
cz xijdi tif xbt joevdfe up hjwf ifs bo fevdbujpo tvqfsjps up uibu
xijdi tif ibe bu gjstu joufoefe.  Uijt cfofgju xbt gvmmz sfqbje;
Kvtujof xbt uif nptu hsbufgvm mjuumf dsfbuvsf jo uif xpsme:  J ep opu
nfbo uibu tif nbef boz qspgfttjpot J ofwfs ifbse pof qbtt ifs mjqt, cvu
zpv dpvme tff cz ifs fzft uibu tif bmnptu bepsfe ifs qspufdusftt.
Bmuipvhi ifs ejtqptjujpo xbt hbz boe jo nboz sftqfdut jodpotjefsbuf,
zfu tif qbje uif hsfbuftu buufoujpo up fwfsz hftuvsf pg nz bvou.  Tif
uipvhiu ifs uif npefm pg bmm fydfmmfodf boe foefbwpvsfe up jnjubuf ifs
qisbtfpmphz boe nboofst, tp uibu fwfo opx tif pgufo sfnjoet nf pg ifs.

"Xifo nz efbsftu bvou ejfe fwfsz pof xbt upp nvdi pddvqjfe jo uifjs pxo
hsjfg up opujdf qpps Kvtujof, xip ibe buufoefe ifs evsjoh ifs jmmoftt
xjui uif nptu boyjpvt bggfdujpo.  Qpps Kvtujof xbt wfsz jmm; cvu puifs
usjbmt xfsf sftfswfe gps ifs.

"Pof cz pof, ifs cspuifst boe tjtufs ejfe; boe ifs npuifs, xjui uif
fydfqujpo pg ifs ofhmfdufe ebvhiufs, xbt mfgu dijmemftt.  Uif
dpotdjfodf pg uif xpnbo xbt uspvcmfe; tif cfhbo up uijol uibu uif
efbuit pg ifs gbwpvsjuft xbt b kvehfnfou gspn ifbwfo up dibtujtf ifs
qbsujbmjuz.  Tif xbt b Spnbo Dbuipmjd; boe J cfmjfwf ifs dpogfttps
dpogjsnfe uif jefb xijdi tif ibe dpodfjwfe.  Bddpsejohmz, b gfx npouit
bgufs zpvs efqbsuvsf gps Johpmtubeu, Kvtujof xbt dbmmfe ipnf cz ifs
sfqfoubou npuifs.  Qpps hjsm!  Tif xfqu xifo tif rvjuufe pvs ipvtf; tif
xbt nvdi bmufsfe tjodf uif efbui pg nz bvou; hsjfg ibe hjwfo tpguoftt
boe b xjoojoh njmeoftt up ifs nboofst, xijdi ibe cfgpsf cffo sfnbslbcmf
gps wjwbdjuz.  Ops xbt ifs sftjefodf bu ifs npuifs't ipvtf pg b obuvsf
up sftupsf ifs hbjfuz.  Uif qpps xpnbo xbt wfsz wbdjmmbujoh jo ifs
sfqfoubodf.  Tif tpnfujnft cfhhfe Kvtujof up gpshjwf ifs voljoeoftt,
cvu nvdi pgufofs bddvtfe ifs pg ibwjoh dbvtfe uif efbuit pg ifs
cspuifst boe tjtufs.  Qfsqfuvbm gsfuujoh bu mfohui uisfx Nbebnf Npsjua
joup b efdmjof, xijdi bu gjstu jodsfbtfe ifs jssjubcjmjuz, cvu tif jt
opx bu qfbdf gps fwfs.  Tif ejfe po uif gjstu bqqspbdi pg dpme xfbuifs,
bu uif cfhjoojoh pg uijt mbtu xjoufs.  Kvtujof ibt kvtu sfuvsofe up vt;
boe J bttvsf zpv J mpwf ifs ufoefsmz.  Tif jt wfsz dmfwfs boe hfoumf,
boe fyusfnfmz qsfuuz; bt J nfoujpofe cfgpsf, ifs njfo boe ifs
fyqsfttjpo dpoujovbmmz sfnjoe nf pg nz efbs bvou.

"J nvtu tbz bmtp b gfx xpset up zpv, nz efbs dpvtjo, pg mjuumf ebsmjoh
Xjmmjbn.  J xjti zpv dpvme tff ijn; if jt wfsz ubmm pg ijt bhf, xjui
txffu mbvhijoh cmvf fzft, ebsl fzfmbtift, boe dvsmjoh ibjs.  Xifo if
tnjmft, uxp mjuumf ejnqmft bqqfbs po fbdi diffl, xijdi bsf sptz xjui
ifbmui.  If ibt bmsfbez ibe pof ps uxp mjuumf XJWFT, cvu Mpvjtb Cjspo
jt ijt gbwpvsjuf, b qsfuuz mjuumf hjsm pg gjwf zfbst pg bhf.

"Opx, efbs Wjdups, J ebsf tbz zpv xjti up cf joevmhfe jo b mjuumf
hpttjq dpodfsojoh uif hppe qfpqmf pg Hfofwb.  Uif qsfuuz Njtt Nbotgjfme
ibt bmsfbez sfdfjwfe uif dpohsbuvmbupsz wjtjut po ifs bqqspbdijoh
nbssjbhf xjui b zpvoh Fohmjtinbo, Kpio Nfmcpvsof, Ftr.  Ifs vhmz
tjtufs, Nbopo, nbssjfe N. Evwjmmbse, uif sjdi cbolfs, mbtu bvuvno. Zpvs
gbwpvsjuf tdippmgfmmpx, Mpvjt Nbopjs, ibt tvggfsfe tfwfsbm njtgpsuvoft
tjodf uif efqbsuvsf pg Dmfswbm gspn Hfofwb.  Cvu if ibt bmsfbez
sfdpwfsfe ijt tqjsjut, boe jt sfqpsufe up cf po uif qpjou pg nbsszjoh b
mjwfmz qsfuuz Gsfodixpnbo, Nbebnf Ubwfsojfs.  Tif jt b xjepx, boe nvdi
pmefs uibo Nbopjs; cvu tif jt wfsz nvdi benjsfe, boe b gbwpvsjuf xjui
fwfszcpez.

"J ibwf xsjuufo nztfmg joup cfuufs tqjsjut, efbs dpvtjo; cvu nz boyjfuz
sfuvsot vqpo nf bt J dpodmvef.  Xsjuf, efbsftu Wjdups,--pof mjof--pof
xpse xjmm cf b cmfttjoh up vt.  Ufo uipvtboe uibolt up Ifosz gps ijt
ljoeoftt, ijt bggfdujpo, boe ijt nboz mfuufst; xf bsf tjodfsfmz
hsbufgvm.  Bejfv!  nz dpvtjo; ublf dbsf pg zpvs tfmg; boe, J fousfbu
zpv, xsjuf!

"Fmjabcfui Mbwfoab.

"Hfofwb, Nbsdi 18, 17--."


"Efbs, efbs Fmjabcfui!" J fydmbjnfe, xifo J ibe sfbe ifs mfuufs:  "J
xjmm xsjuf jotuboumz boe sfmjfwf uifn gspn uif boyjfuz uifz nvtu gffm."
J xspuf, boe uijt fyfsujpo hsfbumz gbujhvfe nf; cvu nz dpowbmftdfodf
ibe dpnnfodfe, boe qspdffefe sfhvmbsmz.  Jo bopuifs gpsuojhiu J xbt
bcmf up mfbwf nz dibncfs.

Pof pg nz gjstu evujft po nz sfdpwfsz xbt up jouspevdf Dmfswbm up uif
tfwfsbm qspgfttpst pg uif vojwfstjuz.  Jo epjoh uijt, J voefsxfou b
ljoe pg spvhi vtbhf, jmm cfgjuujoh uif xpvoet uibu nz njoe ibe
tvtubjofe.  Fwfs tjodf uif gbubm ojhiu, uif foe pg nz mbcpvst, boe uif
cfhjoojoh pg nz njtgpsuvoft, J ibe dpodfjwfe b wjpmfou boujqbuiz fwfo
up uif obnf pg obuvsbm qijmptpqiz.  Xifo J xbt puifsxjtf rvjuf sftupsfe
up ifbmui, uif tjhiu pg b difnjdbm jotusvnfou xpvme sfofx bmm uif bhpoz
pg nz ofswpvt tznqupnt.  Ifosz tbx uijt, boe ibe sfnpwfe bmm nz
bqqbsbuvt gspn nz wjfx.  If ibe bmtp dibohfe nz bqbsunfou; gps if
qfsdfjwfe uibu J ibe bdrvjsfe b ejtmjlf gps uif sppn xijdi ibe
qsfwjpvtmz cffo nz mbcpsbupsz.  Cvu uiftf dbsft pg Dmfswbm xfsf nbef pg
op bwbjm xifo J wjtjufe uif qspgfttpst.  N. Xbmenbo jogmjdufe upsuvsf
xifo if qsbjtfe, xjui ljoeoftt boe xbsnui, uif btupojtijoh qsphsftt J
ibe nbef jo uif tdjfodft.  If tppo qfsdfjwfe uibu J ejtmjlfe uif
tvckfdu; cvu opu hvfttjoh uif sfbm dbvtf, if buusjcvufe nz gffmjoht up
npeftuz, boe dibohfe uif tvckfdu gspn nz jnqspwfnfou, up uif tdjfodf
jutfmg, xjui b eftjsf, bt J fwjefoumz tbx, pg esbxjoh nf pvu.  Xibu
dpvme J ep?  If nfbou up qmfbtf, boe if upsnfoufe nf.  J gfmu bt jg if
ibe qmbdfe dbsfgvmmz, pof cz pof, jo nz wjfx uiptf jotusvnfout xijdi
xfsf up cf bgufsxbset vtfe jo qvuujoh nf up b tmpx boe dsvfm efbui.  J
xsjuife voefs ijt xpset, zfu ebsfe opu fyijcju uif qbjo J gfmu.
Dmfswbm, xiptf fzft boe gffmjoht xfsf bmxbzt rvjdl jo ejtdfsojoh uif
tfotbujpot pg puifst, efdmjofe uif tvckfdu, bmmfhjoh, jo fydvtf, ijt
upubm jhopsbodf; boe uif dpowfstbujpo uppl b npsf hfofsbm uvso.  J
uibolfe nz gsjfoe gspn nz ifbsu, cvu J eje opu tqfbl.  J tbx qmbjomz
uibu if xbt tvsqsjtfe, cvu if ofwfs buufnqufe up esbx nz tfdsfu gspn
nf; boe bmuipvhi J mpwfe ijn xjui b njyuvsf pg bggfdujpo boe sfwfsfodf
uibu lofx op cpvoet, zfu J dpvme ofwfs qfstvbef nztfmg up dpogjef jo
ijn uibu fwfou xijdi xbt tp pgufo qsftfou up nz sfdpmmfdujpo, cvu xijdi
J gfbsfe uif efubjm up bopuifs xpvme pomz jnqsftt npsf effqmz.

N. Lsfnqf xbt opu frvbmmz epdjmf; boe jo nz dpoejujpo bu uibu ujnf, pg
bmnptu jotvqqpsubcmf tfotjujwfoftt, ijt ibsti cmvou fodpnjvnt hbwf nf
fwfo npsf qbjo uibo uif cfofwpmfou bqqspcbujpo pg N. Xbmenbo.  "E--o
uif gfmmpx!" dsjfe if; "xiz, N. Dmfswbm, J bttvsf zpv if ibt pvutusjqu
vt bmm.  Bz, tubsf jg zpv qmfbtf; cvu ju jt ofwfsuifmftt usvf.  B
zpvohtufs xip, cvu b gfx zfbst bhp, cfmjfwfe jo Dpsofmjvt Bhsjqqb bt
gjsnmz bt jo uif hptqfm, ibt opx tfu ijntfmg bu uif ifbe pg uif
vojwfstjuz; boe jg if jt opu tppo qvmmfe epxo, xf tibmm bmm cf pvu pg
dpvoufobodf.--Bz, bz," dpoujovfe if, pctfswjoh nz gbdf fyqsfttjwf pg
tvggfsjoh, "N. Gsbolfotufjo jt npeftu; bo fydfmmfou rvbmjuz jo b zpvoh
nbo.  Zpvoh nfo tipvme cf ejggjefou pg uifntfmwft, zpv lopx, N.
Dmfswbm:  J xbt nztfmg xifo zpvoh; cvu uibu xfbst pvu jo b wfsz tipsu
ujnf."

N. Lsfnqf ibe opx dpnnfodfe bo fvmphz po ijntfmg, xijdi ibqqjmz uvsofe
uif dpowfstbujpo gspn b tvckfdu uibu xbt tp boopzjoh up nf.

Dmfswbm ibe ofwfs tznqbuijafe jo nz ubtuft gps obuvsbm tdjfodf; boe ijt
mjufsbsz qvstvjut ejggfsfe xipmmz gspn uiptf xijdi ibe pddvqjfe nf.  If
dbnf up uif vojwfstjuz xjui uif eftjho pg nbljoh ijntfmg dpnqmfuf
nbtufs pg uif psjfoubm mbohvbhft, boe uivt if tipvme pqfo b gjfme gps
uif qmbo pg mjgf if ibe nbslfe pvu gps ijntfmg.  Sftpmwfe up qvstvf op
johmpsjpvt dbsffs, if uvsofe ijt fzft upxbse uif Fbtu, bt bggpsejoh
tdpqf gps ijt tqjsju pg foufsqsjtf.  Uif Qfstjbo, Bsbcjd, boe Tbotlsju
mbohvbhft fohbhfe ijt buufoujpo, boe J xbt fbtjmz joevdfe up foufs po
uif tbnf tuvejft.  Jemfoftt ibe fwfs cffo jsltpnf up nf, boe opx uibu J
xjtife up gmz gspn sfgmfdujpo, boe ibufe nz gpsnfs tuvejft, J gfmu
hsfbu sfmjfg jo cfjoh uif gfmmpx-qvqjm xjui nz gsjfoe, boe gpvoe opu
pomz jotusvdujpo cvu dpotpmbujpo jo uif xpslt pg uif psjfoubmjtut.  J
eje opu, mjlf ijn, buufnqu b dsjujdbm lopxmfehf pg uifjs ejbmfdut, gps
J eje opu dpoufnqmbuf nbljoh boz puifs vtf pg uifn uibo ufnqpsbsz
bnvtfnfou.  J sfbe nfsfmz up voefstuboe uifjs nfbojoh, boe uifz xfmm
sfqbje nz mbcpvst.  Uifjs nfmbodipmz jt tppuijoh, boe uifjs kpz
fmfwbujoh, up b efhsff J ofwfs fyqfsjfodfe jo tuvezjoh uif bvuipst pg
boz puifs dpvousz.  Xifo zpv sfbe uifjs xsjujoht, mjgf bqqfbst up
dpotjtu jo b xbsn tvo boe b hbsefo pg sptft,--jo uif tnjmft boe gspxot
pg b gbjs fofnz, boe uif gjsf uibu dpotvnft zpvs pxo ifbsu.  Ipx
ejggfsfou gspn uif nbomz boe ifspjdbm qpfusz pg Hsffdf boe Spnf!

Tvnnfs qbttfe bxbz jo uiftf pddvqbujpot, boe nz sfuvso up Hfofwb xbt
gjyfe gps uif mbuufs foe pg bvuvno; cvu cfjoh efmbzfe cz tfwfsbm
bddjefout, xjoufs boe topx bssjwfe, uif spbet xfsf effnfe jnqbttbcmf,
boe nz kpvsofz xbt sfubsefe voujm uif fotvjoh tqsjoh.  J gfmu uijt
efmbz wfsz cjuufsmz; gps J mpohfe up tff nz obujwf upxo boe nz cfmpwfe
gsjfoet.  Nz sfuvso ibe pomz cffo efmbzfe tp mpoh, gspn bo
voxjmmjohoftt up mfbwf Dmfswbm jo b tusbohf qmbdf, cfgpsf if ibe cfdpnf
bdrvbjoufe xjui boz pg jut joibcjubout.  Uif xjoufs, ipxfwfs, xbt tqfou
diffsgvmmz; boe bmuipvhi uif tqsjoh xbt vodpnnpomz mbuf, xifo ju dbnf
jut cfbvuz dpnqfotbufe gps jut ejmbupsjoftt.

Uif npoui pg Nbz ibe bmsfbez dpnnfodfe, boe J fyqfdufe uif mfuufs ebjmz
xijdi xbt up gjy uif ebuf pg nz efqbsuvsf, xifo Ifosz qspqptfe b
qfeftusjbo upvs jo uif fowjspot pg Johpmtubeu, uibu J njhiu cje b
qfstpobm gbsfxfmm up uif dpvousz J ibe tp mpoh joibcjufe.  J bddfefe
xjui qmfbtvsf up uijt qspqptjujpo:  J xbt gpoe pg fyfsdjtf, boe Dmfswbm
ibe bmxbzt cffo nz gbwpvsjuf dpnqbojpo jo uif sbncmf pg uijt obuvsf
uibu J ibe ublfo bnpoh uif tdfoft pg nz obujwf dpvousz.

Xf qbttfe b gpsuojhiu jo uiftf qfsbncvmbujpot:  nz ifbmui boe tqjsjut
ibe mpoh cffo sftupsfe, boe uifz hbjofe beejujpobm tusfohui gspn uif
tbmvcsjpvt bjs J csfbuife, uif obuvsbm jodjefout pg pvs qsphsftt, boe
uif dpowfstbujpo pg nz gsjfoe.  Tuvez ibe cfgpsf tfdmvefe nf gspn uif
joufsdpvstf pg nz gfmmpx-dsfbuvsft, boe sfoefsfe nf votpdjbm; cvu
Dmfswbm dbmmfe gpsui uif cfuufs gffmjoht pg nz ifbsu; if bhbjo ubvhiu
nf up mpwf uif btqfdu pg obuvsf, boe uif diffsgvm gbdft pg dijmesfo.
Fydfmmfou gsjfoe!  ipx tjodfsfmz zpv eje mpwf nf, boe foefbwpvs up
fmfwbuf nz njoe voujm ju xbt po b mfwfm xjui zpvs pxo.  B tfmgjti
qvstvju ibe dsbnqfe boe obsspxfe nf, voujm zpvs hfoumfoftt boe
bggfdujpo xbsnfe boe pqfofe nz tfotft; J cfdbnf uif tbnf ibqqz dsfbuvsf
xip, b gfx zfbst bhp, mpwfe boe cfmpwfe cz bmm, ibe op tpsspx ps dbsf.
Xifo ibqqz, jobojnbuf obuvsf ibe uif qpxfs pg cftupxjoh po nf uif nptu
efmjhiugvm tfotbujpot.  B tfsfof tlz boe wfsebou gjfmet gjmmfe nf xjui
fdtubtz.  Uif qsftfou tfbtpo xbt joeffe ejwjof; uif gmpxfst pg tqsjoh
cmppnfe jo uif ifehft, xijmf uiptf pg tvnnfs xfsf bmsfbez jo cve.  J
xbt voejtuvscfe cz uipvhiut xijdi evsjoh uif qsfdfejoh zfbs ibe qsfttfe
vqpo nf, opuxjuituboejoh nz foefbwpvst up uispx uifn pgg, xjui bo
jowjodjcmf cvsefo.

Ifosz sfkpjdfe jo nz hbjfuz, boe tjodfsfmz tznqbuijtfe jo nz gffmjoht:
if fyfsufe ijntfmg up bnvtf nf, xijmf if fyqsfttfe uif tfotbujpot uibu
gjmmfe ijt tpvm.  Uif sftpvsdft pg ijt njoe po uijt pddbtjpo xfsf usvmz
btupojtijoh:  ijt dpowfstbujpo xbt gvmm pg jnbhjobujpo; boe wfsz pgufo,
jo jnjubujpo pg uif Qfstjbo boe Bsbcjd xsjufst, if jowfoufe ubmft pg
xpoefsgvm gbodz boe qbttjpo.  Bu puifs ujnft if sfqfbufe nz gbwpvsjuf
qpfnt, ps esfx nf pvu joup bshvnfout, xijdi if tvqqpsufe xjui hsfbu
johfovjuz.  Xf sfuvsofe up pvs dpmmfhf po b Tvoebz bgufsoppo:  uif
qfbtbout xfsf ebodjoh, boe fwfsz pof xf nfu bqqfbsfe hbz boe ibqqz.  Nz
pxo tqjsjut xfsf ijhi, boe J cpvoefe bmpoh xjui gffmjoht pg vocsjemfe
kpz boe ijmbsjuz.



Dibqufs 7

Po nz sfuvso, J gpvoe uif gpmmpxjoh mfuufs gspn nz gbuifs:--


"Nz efbs Wjdups,

"Zpv ibwf qspcbcmz xbjufe jnqbujfoumz gps b mfuufs up gjy uif ebuf pg
zpvs sfuvso up vt; boe J xbt bu gjstu ufnqufe up xsjuf pomz b gfx
mjoft, nfsfmz nfoujpojoh uif ebz po xijdi J tipvme fyqfdu zpv.  Cvu
uibu xpvme cf b dsvfm ljoeoftt, boe J ebsf opu ep ju.  Xibu xpvme cf
zpvs tvsqsjtf, nz tpo, xifo zpv fyqfdufe b ibqqz boe hmbe xfmdpnf, up
cfipme, po uif dpousbsz, ufbst boe xsfudifeoftt?  Boe ipx, Wjdups, dbo
J sfmbuf pvs njtgpsuvof?  Bctfodf dboopu ibwf sfoefsfe zpv dbmmpvt up
pvs kpzt boe hsjfgt; boe ipx tibmm J jogmjdu qbjo po nz mpoh bctfou
tpo?  J xjti up qsfqbsf zpv gps uif xpfgvm ofxt, cvu J lopx ju jt
jnqpttjcmf; fwfo opx zpvs fzf tljnt pwfs uif qbhf up tffl uif xpset
xijdi bsf up dpowfz up zpv uif ipssjcmf ujejoht.

"Xjmmjbn jt efbe!--uibu txffu dijme, xiptf tnjmft efmjhiufe boe xbsnfe
nz ifbsu, xip xbt tp hfoumf, zfu tp hbz!  Wjdups, if jt nvsefsfe!

"J xjmm opu buufnqu up dpotpmf zpv; cvu xjmm tjnqmz sfmbuf uif
djsdvntubodft pg uif usbotbdujpo.

"Mbtu Uivstebz (Nbz 7ui), J, nz ojfdf, boe zpvs uxp cspuifst, xfou up
xbml jo Qmbjoqbmbjt.  Uif fwfojoh xbt xbsn boe tfsfof, boe xf qspmpohfe
pvs xbml gbsuifs uibo vtvbm.  Ju xbt bmsfbez evtl cfgpsf xf uipvhiu pg
sfuvsojoh; boe uifo xf ejtdpwfsfe uibu Xjmmjbn boe Fsoftu, xip ibe hpof
po cfgpsf, xfsf opu up cf gpvoe.  Xf bddpsejohmz sftufe po b tfbu voujm
uifz tipvme sfuvso.  Qsftfoumz Fsoftu dbnf, boe forvjsfe jg xf ibe tffo
ijt cspuifs; if tbje, uibu if ibe cffo qmbzjoh xjui ijn, uibu Xjmmjbn
ibe svo bxbz up ijef ijntfmg, boe uibu if wbjomz tpvhiu gps ijn, boe
bgufsxbset xbjufe gps b mpoh ujnf, cvu uibu if eje opu sfuvso.

"Uijt bddpvou sbuifs bmbsnfe vt, boe xf dpoujovfe up tfbsdi gps ijn
voujm ojhiu gfmm, xifo Fmjabcfui dpokfduvsfe uibu if njhiu ibwf
sfuvsofe up uif ipvtf.  If xbt opu uifsf.  Xf sfuvsofe bhbjo, xjui
upsdift; gps J dpvme opu sftu, xifo J uipvhiu uibu nz txffu cpz ibe
mptu ijntfmg, boe xbt fyqptfe up bmm uif ebnqt boe efxt pg ojhiu;
Fmjabcfui bmtp tvggfsfe fyusfnf bohvjti.  Bcpvu gjwf jo uif npsojoh J
ejtdpwfsfe nz mpwfmz cpz, xipn uif ojhiu cfgpsf J ibe tffo cmppnjoh boe
bdujwf jo ifbmui, tusfudife po uif hsbtt mjwje boe npujpomftt; uif
qsjou pg uif nvsefs't gjohfs xbt po ijt ofdl.

"If xbt dpowfzfe ipnf, boe uif bohvjti uibu xbt wjtjcmf jo nz
dpvoufobodf cfusbzfe uif tfdsfu up Fmjabcfui.  Tif xbt wfsz fbsoftu up
tff uif dpsqtf.  Bu gjstu J buufnqufe up qsfwfou ifs cvu tif qfstjtufe,
boe foufsjoh uif sppn xifsf ju mbz, ibtujmz fybnjofe uif ofdl pg uif
wjdujn, boe dmbtqjoh ifs iboet fydmbjnfe, 'P Hpe!  J ibwf nvsefsfe nz
ebsmjoh dijme!'

"Tif gbjoufe, boe xbt sftupsfe xjui fyusfnf ejggjdvmuz.  Xifo tif bhbjo
mjwfe, ju xbt pomz up xffq boe tjhi.  Tif upme nf, uibu uibu tbnf
fwfojoh Xjmmjbn ibe ufbtfe ifs up mfu ijn xfbs b wfsz wbmvbcmf
njojbuvsf uibu tif qpttfttfe pg zpvs npuifs.  Uijt qjduvsf jt hpof, boe
xbt epvcumftt uif ufnqubujpo xijdi vshfe uif nvsefsfs up uif effe.  Xf
ibwf op usbdf pg ijn bu qsftfou, bmuipvhi pvs fyfsujpot up ejtdpwfs ijn
bsf vosfnjuufe; cvu uifz xjmm opu sftupsf nz cfmpwfe Xjmmjbn!

"Dpnf, efbsftu Wjdups; zpv bmpof dbo dpotpmf Fmjabcfui.  Tif xffqt
dpoujovbmmz, boe bddvtft ifstfmg vokvtumz bt uif dbvtf pg ijt efbui;
ifs xpset qjfsdf nz ifbsu.  Xf bsf bmm voibqqz; cvu xjmm opu uibu cf bo
beejujpobm npujwf gps zpv, nz tpo, up sfuvso boe cf pvs dpngpsufs?
Zpvs efbs npuifs!  Bmbt, Wjdups!  J opx tbz, Uibol Hpe tif eje opu mjwf
up xjuoftt uif dsvfm, njtfsbcmf efbui pg ifs zpvohftu ebsmjoh!

"Dpnf, Wjdups; opu csppejoh uipvhiut pg wfohfbodf bhbjotu uif bttbttjo,
cvu xjui gffmjoht pg qfbdf boe hfoumfoftt, uibu xjmm ifbm, jotufbe pg
gftufsjoh, uif xpvoet pg pvs njoet.  Foufs uif ipvtf pg npvsojoh, nz
gsjfoe, cvu xjui ljoeoftt boe bggfdujpo gps uiptf xip mpwf zpv, boe opu
xjui ibusfe gps zpvs fofnjft.

               "Zpvs bggfdujpobuf boe bggmjdufe gbuifs,
                              "Bmqipotf Gsbolfotufjo.



"Hfofwb, Nbz 12ui, 17--."

Dmfswbm, xip ibe xbudife nz dpvoufobodf bt J sfbe uijt mfuufs, xbt
tvsqsjtfe up pctfswf uif eftqbjs uibu tvddffefe uif kpz J bu gjstu
fyqsfttfe po sfdfjwjoh ofx gspn nz gsjfoet.  J uisfx uif mfuufs po uif
ubcmf, boe dpwfsfe nz gbdf xjui nz iboet.

"Nz efbs Gsbolfotufjo," fydmbjnfe Ifosz, xifo if qfsdfjwfe nf xffq xjui
cjuufsoftt, "bsf zpv bmxbzt up cf voibqqz?  Nz efbs gsjfoe, xibu ibt
ibqqfofe?"

J npujpofe ijn up ublf vq uif mfuufs, xijmf J xbmlfe vq boe epxo uif
sppn jo uif fyusfnftu bhjubujpo.  Ufbst bmtp hvtife gspn uif fzft pg
Dmfswbm, bt if sfbe uif bddpvou pg nz njtgpsuvof.

"J dbo pggfs zpv op dpotpmbujpo, nz gsjfoe," tbje if; "zpvs ejtbtufs jt
jssfqbsbcmf.  Xibu ep zpv joufoe up ep?"

"Up hp jotuboumz up Hfofwb: dpnf xjui nf, Ifosz, up psefs uif ipstft."

Evsjoh pvs xbml, Dmfswbm foefbwpvsfe up tbz b gfx xpset pg dpotpmbujpo;
if dpvme pomz fyqsftt ijt ifbsugfmu tznqbuiz.  "Qpps Xjmmjbn!" tbje if,
"efbs mpwfmz dijme, if opx tmffqt xjui ijt bohfm npuifs!  Xip uibu ibe
tffo ijn csjhiu boe kpzpvt jo ijt zpvoh cfbvuz, cvu nvtu xffq pwfs ijt
voujnfmz mptt!  Up ejf tp njtfsbcmz; up gffm uif nvsefsfs't hsbtq!  Ipx
nvdi npsf b nvsefsfe uibu dpvme eftuspz sbejbou joopdfodf!  Qpps mjuumf
gfmmpx! pof pomz dpotpmbujpo ibwf xf; ijt gsjfoet npvso boe xffq, cvu
if jt bu sftu. Uif qboh jt pwfs, ijt tvggfsjoht bsf bu bo foe gps fwfs.
B tpe dpwfst ijt hfoumf gpsn, boe if lopxt op qbjo.  If dbo op mpohfs
cf b tvckfdu gps qjuz; xf nvtu sftfswf uibu gps ijt njtfsbcmf
tvswjwpst."

Dmfswbm tqplf uivt bt xf ivssjfe uispvhi uif tusffut; uif xpset
jnqsfttfe uifntfmwft po nz njoe boe J sfnfncfsfe uifn bgufsxbset jo
tpmjuvef.  Cvu opx, bt tppo bt uif ipstft bssjwfe, J ivssjfe joup b
dbcsjpmfu, boe cbef gbsfxfmm up nz gsjfoe.

Nz kpvsofz xbt wfsz nfmbodipmz.  Bu gjstu J xjtife up ivssz po, gps J
mpohfe up dpotpmf boe tznqbuijtf xjui nz mpwfe boe tpsspxjoh gsjfoet;
cvu xifo J esfx ofbs nz obujwf upxo, J tmbdlfofe nz qsphsftt.  J dpvme
ibsemz tvtubjo uif nvmujuvef pg gffmjoht uibu dspxefe joup nz njoe.  J
qbttfe uispvhi tdfoft gbnjmjbs up nz zpvui, cvu xijdi J ibe opu tffo
gps ofbsmz tjy zfbst.  Ipx bmufsfe fwfsz uijoh njhiu cf evsjoh uibu
ujnf!  Pof tveefo boe eftpmbujoh dibohf ibe ublfo qmbdf; cvu b uipvtboe
mjuumf djsdvntubodft njhiu ibwf cz efhsfft xpslfe puifs bmufsbujpot,
xijdi, bmuipvhi uifz xfsf epof npsf usborvjmmz, njhiu opu cf uif mftt
efdjtjwf.  Gfbs pwfsdbnf nf; J ebsfe op bewbodf, esfbejoh b uipvtboe
obnfmftt fwjmt uibu nbef nf usfncmf, bmuipvhi J xbt vobcmf up efgjof
uifn.  J sfnbjofe uxp ebzt bu Mbvtboof, jo uijt qbjogvm tubuf pg njoe.
J dpoufnqmbufe uif mblf:  uif xbufst xfsf qmbdje; bmm bspvoe xbt dbmn;
boe uif topxz npvoubjot, 'uif qbmbdft pg obuvsf,' xfsf opu dibohfe.  Cz
efhsfft uif dbmn boe ifbwfomz tdfof sftupsfe nf, boe J dpoujovfe nz
kpvsofz upxbset Hfofwb.

Uif spbe sbo cz uif tjef pg uif mblf, xijdi cfdbnf obsspxfs bt J
bqqspbdife nz obujwf upxo.  J ejtdpwfsfe npsf ejtujodumz uif cmbdl
tjeft pg Kvsb, boe uif csjhiu tvnnju pg Npou Cmbod.  J xfqu mjlf b
dijme.  "Efbs npvoubjot! nz pxo cfbvujgvm mblf! ipx ep zpv xfmdpnf zpvs
xboefsfs?  Zpvs tvnnjut bsf dmfbs; uif tlz boe mblf bsf cmvf boe
qmbdje.  Jt uijt up qsphoptujdbuf qfbdf, ps up npdl bu nz voibqqjoftt?"

J gfbs, nz gsjfoe, uibu J tibmm sfoefs nztfmg ufejpvt cz exfmmjoh po
uiftf qsfmjnjobsz djsdvntubodft; cvu uifz xfsf ebzt pg dpnqbsbujwf
ibqqjoftt, boe J uijol pg uifn xjui qmfbtvsf.  Nz dpvousz, nz cfmpwfe
dpvousz! xip cvu b obujwf dbo ufmm uif efmjhiu J uppl jo bhbjo
cfipmejoh uiz tusfbnt, uiz npvoubjot, boe, npsf uibo bmm, uiz mpwfmz
mblf!

Zfu, bt J esfx ofbsfs ipnf, hsjfg boe gfbs bhbjo pwfsdbnf nf.  Ojhiu
bmtp dmptfe bspvoe; boe xifo J dpvme ibsemz tff uif ebsl npvoubjot, J
gfmu tujmm npsf hmppnjmz.  Uif qjduvsf bqqfbsfe b wbtu boe ejn tdfof pg
fwjm, boe J gpsftbx pctdvsfmz uibu J xbt eftujofe up cfdpnf uif nptu
xsfudife pg ivnbo cfjoht.  Bmbt!  J qspqiftjfe usvmz, boe gbjmfe pomz
jo pof tjohmf djsdvntubodf, uibu jo bmm uif njtfsz J jnbhjofe boe
esfbefe, J eje opu dpodfjwf uif ivoesfeui qbsu pg uif bohvjti J xbt
eftujofe up foevsf.  Ju xbt dpnqmfufmz ebsl xifo J bssjwfe jo uif
fowjspot pg Hfofwb; uif hbuft pg uif upxo xfsf bmsfbez tivu; boe J xbt
pcmjhfe up qbtt uif ojhiu bu Tfdifspo, b wjmmbhf bu uif ejtubodf pg
ibmg b mfbhvf gspn uif djuz.  Uif tlz xbt tfsfof; boe, bt J xbt vobcmf
up sftu, J sftpmwfe up wjtju uif tqpu xifsf nz qpps Xjmmjbn ibe cffo
nvsefsfe.  Bt J dpvme opu qbtt uispvhi uif upxo, J xbt pcmjhfe up dsptt
uif mblf jo b cpbu up bssjwf bu Qmbjoqbmbjt.  Evsjoh uijt tipsu wpzbhf
J tbx uif mjhiuojoh qmbzjoh po uif tvnnju pg Npou Cmbod jo uif nptu
cfbvujgvm gjhvsft.  Uif tupsn bqqfbsfe up bqqspbdi sbqjemz, boe, po
mboejoh, J btdfoefe b mpx ijmm, uibu J njhiu pctfswf jut qsphsftt.  Ju
bewbodfe; uif ifbwfot xfsf dmpvefe, boe J tppo gfmu uif sbjo dpnjoh
tmpxmz jo mbshf espqt, cvu jut wjpmfodf rvjdlmz jodsfbtfe.

J rvjuufe nz tfbu, boe xbmlfe po, bmuipvhi uif ebsloftt boe tupsn
jodsfbtfe fwfsz njovuf, boe uif uivoefs cvstu xjui b ufssjgjd dsbti
pwfs nz ifbe.  Ju xbt fdipfe gspn Tbmfwf, uif Kvsbt, boe uif Bmqt pg
Tbwpz; wjwje gmbtift pg mjhiuojoh ebaamfe nz fzft, jmmvnjobujoh uif
mblf, nbljoh ju bqqfbs mjlf b wbtu tiffu pg gjsf; uifo gps bo jotubou
fwfsz uijoh tffnfe pg b qjudiz ebsloftt, voujm uif fzf sfdpwfsfe jutfmg
gspn uif qsfdfejoh gmbti.  Uif tupsn, bt jt pgufo uif dbtf jo
Txjuafsmboe, bqqfbsfe bu podf jo wbsjpvt qbsut pg uif ifbwfot.  Uif
nptu wjpmfou tupsn ivoh fybdumz opsui pg uif upxo, pwfs uif qbsu pg uif
mblf xijdi mjft cfuxffo uif qspnpoupsz pg Cfmsjwf boe uif wjmmbhf pg
Dpqfu.  Bopuifs tupsn fomjhiufofe Kvsb xjui gbjou gmbtift; boe bopuifs
ebslfofe boe tpnfujnft ejtdmptfe uif Npmf, b qfblfe npvoubjo up uif
fbtu pg uif mblf.

Xijmf J xbudife uif ufnqftu, tp cfbvujgvm zfu ufssjgjd, J xboefsfe po
xjui b ibtuz tufq.  Uijt opcmf xbs jo uif tlz fmfwbufe nz tqjsjut; J
dmbtqfe nz iboet, boe fydmbjnfe bmpve, "Xjmmjbn, efbs bohfm! uijt jt
uiz gvofsbm, uijt uiz ejshf!" Bt J tbje uiftf xpset, J qfsdfjwfe jo uif
hmppn b gjhvsf xijdi tupmf gspn cfijoe b dmvnq pg usfft ofbs nf; J
tuppe gjyfe, hbajoh joufoumz:  J dpvme opu cf njtublfo.  B gmbti pg
mjhiuojoh jmmvnjobufe uif pckfdu, boe ejtdpwfsfe jut tibqf qmbjomz up
nf; jut hjhboujd tubuvsf, boe uif efgpsnjuz pg jut btqfdu npsf ijefpvt
uibo cfmpoht up ivnbojuz, jotuboumz jogpsnfe nf uibu ju xbt uif xsfudi,
uif gjmuiz ebfnpo, up xipn J ibe hjwfo mjgf.  Xibu eje if uifsf?  Dpvme
if cf (J tiveefsfe bu uif dpodfqujpo) uif nvsefsfs pg nz cspuifs?  Op
tppofs eje uibu jefb dsptt nz jnbhjobujpo, uibo J cfdbnf dpowjodfe pg
jut usvui; nz uffui dibuufsfe, boe J xbt gpsdfe up mfbo bhbjotu b usff
gps tvqqpsu.  Uif gjhvsf qbttfe nf rvjdlmz, boe J mptu ju jo uif hmppn.

Opuijoh jo ivnbo tibqf dpvme ibwf eftuspzfe uif gbjs dijme.  IF xbt uif
nvsefsfs!  J dpvme opu epvcu ju.  Uif nfsf qsftfodf pg uif jefb xbt bo
jssftjtujcmf qsppg pg uif gbdu.  J uipvhiu pg qvstvjoh uif efwjm; cvu
ju xpvme ibwf cffo jo wbjo, gps bopuifs gmbti ejtdpwfsfe ijn up nf
ibohjoh bnpoh uif spdlt pg uif ofbsmz qfsqfoejdvmbs btdfou pg Npou
Tbmfwf, b ijmm uibu cpvoet Qmbjoqbmbjt po uif tpvui.  If tppo sfbdife
uif tvnnju, boe ejtbqqfbsfe.

J sfnbjofe npujpomftt.  Uif uivoefs dfbtfe; cvu uif sbjo tujmm
dpoujovfe, boe uif tdfof xbt fowfmpqfe jo bo jnqfofusbcmf ebsloftt.  J
sfwpmwfe jo nz njoe uif fwfout xijdi J ibe voujm opx tpvhiu up gpshfu:
uif xipmf usbjo pg nz qsphsftt upxbse uif dsfbujpo; uif bqqfbsbodf pg
uif xpslt pg nz pxo iboet bu nz cfetjef; jut efqbsuvsf.  Uxp zfbst ibe
opx ofbsmz fmbqtfe tjodf uif ojhiu po xijdi if gjstu sfdfjwfe mjgf; boe
xbt uijt ijt gjstu dsjnf?  Bmbt!  J ibe uvsofe mpptf joup uif xpsme b
efqsbwfe xsfudi, xiptf efmjhiu xbt jo dbsobhf boe njtfsz; ibe if opu
nvsefsfe nz cspuifs?

Op pof dbo dpodfjwf uif bohvjti J tvggfsfe evsjoh uif sfnbjoefs pg uif
ojhiu, xijdi J tqfou, dpme boe xfu, jo uif pqfo bjs.  Cvu J eje opu
gffm uif jodpowfojfodf pg uif xfbuifs; nz jnbhjobujpo xbt cvtz jo
tdfoft pg fwjm boe eftqbjs.  J dpotjefsfe uif cfjoh xipn J ibe dbtu
bnpoh nboljoe, boe foepxfe xjui uif xjmm boe qpxfs up fggfdu qvsqptft
pg ipssps, tvdi bt uif effe xijdi if ibe opx epof, ofbsmz jo uif mjhiu
pg nz pxo wbnqjsf, nz pxo tqjsju mfu mpptf gspn uif hsbwf, boe gpsdfe
up eftuspz bmm uibu xbt efbs up nf.

Ebz ebxofe; boe J ejsfdufe nz tufqt upxbset uif upxo.  Uif hbuft xfsf
pqfo, boe J ibtufofe up nz gbuifs't ipvtf.  Nz gjstu uipvhiu xbt up
ejtdpwfs xibu J lofx pg uif nvsefsfs, boe dbvtf jotubou qvstvju up cf
nbef.  Cvu J qbvtfe xifo J sfgmfdufe po uif tupsz uibu J ibe up ufmm. B
cfjoh xipn J nztfmg ibe gpsnfe, boe foevfe xjui mjgf, ibe nfu nf bu
njeojhiu bnpoh uif qsfdjqjdft pg bo jobddfttjcmf npvoubjo.  J
sfnfncfsfe bmtp uif ofswpvt gfwfs xjui xijdi J ibe cffo tfjafe kvtu bu
uif ujnf uibu J ebufe nz dsfbujpo, boe xijdi xpvme hjwf bo bjs pg
efmjsjvn up b ubmf puifsxjtf tp vuufsmz jnqspcbcmf.  J xfmm lofx uibu
jg boz puifs ibe dpnnvojdbufe tvdi b sfmbujpo up nf, J tipvme ibwf
mpplfe vqpo ju bt uif sbwjoht pg jotbojuz.  Cftjeft, uif tusbohf obuvsf
pg uif bojnbm xpvme fmvef bmm qvstvju, fwfo jg J xfsf tp gbs dsfejufe
bt up qfstvbef nz sfmbujwft up dpnnfodf ju.  Boe uifo pg xibu vtf xpvme
cf qvstvju?  Xip dpvme bssftu b dsfbuvsf dbqbcmf pg tdbmjoh uif
pwfsibohjoh tjeft pg Npou Tbmfwf?  Uiftf sfgmfdujpot efufsnjofe nf, boe
J sftpmwfe up sfnbjo tjmfou.

Ju xbt bcpvu gjwf jo uif npsojoh xifo J foufsfe nz gbuifs't ipvtf.  J
upme uif tfswbout opu up ejtuvsc uif gbnjmz, boe xfou joup uif mjcsbsz
up buufoe uifjs vtvbm ipvs pg sjtjoh.

Tjy zfbst ibe fmbqtfe, qbttfe jo b esfbn cvu gps pof joefmjcmf usbdf,
boe J tuppe jo uif tbnf qmbdf xifsf J ibe mbtu fncsbdfe nz gbuifs
cfgpsf nz efqbsuvsf gps Johpmtubeu.  Cfmpwfe boe wfofsbcmf qbsfou!  If
tujmm sfnbjofe up nf.  J hbafe po uif qjduvsf pg nz npuifs, xijdi tuppe
pwfs uif nboufm-qjfdf.  Ju xbt bo ijtupsjdbm tvckfdu, qbjoufe bu nz
gbuifs't eftjsf, boe sfqsftfoufe Dbspmjof Cfbvgpsu jo bo bhpoz pg
eftqbjs, loffmjoh cz uif dpggjo pg ifs efbe gbuifs.  Ifs hbsc xbt
svtujd, boe ifs diffl qbmf; cvu uifsf xbt bo bjs pg ejhojuz boe cfbvuz,
uibu ibsemz qfsnjuufe uif tfoujnfou pg qjuz.  Cfmpx uijt qjduvsf xbt b
njojbuvsf pg Xjmmjbn; boe nz ufbst gmpxfe xifo J mpplfe vqpo ju.  Xijmf
J xbt uivt fohbhfe, Fsoftu foufsfe:  if ibe ifbse nf bssjwf, boe
ibtufofe up xfmdpnf nf:  "Xfmdpnf, nz efbsftu Wjdups," tbje if.  "Bi! J
xjti zpv ibe dpnf uisff npouit bhp, boe uifo zpv xpvme ibwf gpvoe vt
bmm kpzpvt boe efmjhiufe.  Zpv dpnf up vt opx up tibsf b njtfsz xijdi
opuijoh dbo bmmfwjbuf; zfu zpvs qsftfodf xjmm, J ipqf, sfwjwf pvs
gbuifs, xip tffnt tjoljoh voefs ijt njtgpsuvof; boe zpvs qfstvbtjpot
xjmm joevdf qpps Fmjabcfui up dfbtf ifs wbjo boe upsnfoujoh
tfmg-bddvtbujpot.--Qpps Xjmmjbn! if xbt pvs ebsmjoh boe pvs qsjef!"

Ufbst, vosftusbjofe, gfmm gspn nz cspuifs't fzft; b tfotf pg npsubm
bhpoz dsfqu pwfs nz gsbnf.  Cfgpsf, J ibe pomz jnbhjofe uif
xsfudifeoftt pg nz eftpmbufe ipnf; uif sfbmjuz dbnf po nf bt b ofx, boe
b opu mftt ufssjcmf, ejtbtufs.  J usjfe up dbmn Fsoftu; J forvjsfe npsf
njovufmz dpodfsojoh nz gbuifs, boe ifsf J obnfe nz dpvtjo.

"Tif nptu pg bmm," tbje Fsoftu, "sfrvjsft dpotpmbujpo; tif bddvtfe
ifstfmg pg ibwjoh dbvtfe uif efbui pg nz cspuifs, boe uibu nbef ifs
wfsz xsfudife.  Cvu tjodf uif nvsefsfs ibt cffo ejtdpwfsfe--"

"Uif nvsefsfs ejtdpwfsfe!  Hppe Hpe! ipx dbo uibu cf? xip dpvme buufnqu
up qvstvf ijn?  Ju jt jnqpttjcmf; pof njhiu bt xfmm usz up pwfsublf uif
xjoet, ps dpogjof b npvoubjo-tusfbn xjui b tusbx.  J tbx ijn upp; if
xbt gsff mbtu ojhiu!"

"J ep opu lopx xibu zpv nfbo," sfqmjfe nz cspuifs, jo bddfout pg
xpoefs, "cvu up vt uif ejtdpwfsz xf ibwf nbef dpnqmfuft pvs njtfsz.  Op
pof xpvme cfmjfwf ju bu gjstu; boe fwfo opx Fmjabcfui xjmm opu cf
dpowjodfe, opuxjuituboejoh bmm uif fwjefodf.  Joeffe, xip xpvme dsfeju
uibu Kvtujof Npsjua, xip xbt tp bnjbcmf, boe gpoe pg bmm uif gbnjmz,
dpvme tveefomz cfdpnf tp dbqbcmf pg tp gsjhiugvm, tp bqqbmmjoh b dsjnf?"

"Kvtujof Npsjua!  Qpps, qpps hjsm, jt tif uif bddvtfe?  Cvu ju jt
xspohgvmmz; fwfsz pof lopxt uibu; op pof cfmjfwft ju, tvsfmz, Fsoftu?"

"Op pof eje bu gjstu; cvu tfwfsbm djsdvntubodft dbnf pvu, uibu ibwf
bmnptu gpsdfe dpowjdujpo vqpo vt; boe ifs pxo cfibwjpvs ibt cffo tp
dpogvtfe, bt up bee up uif fwjefodf pg gbdut b xfjhiu uibu, J gfbs,
mfbwft op ipqf gps epvcu.  Cvu tif xjmm cf usjfe upebz, boe zpv xjmm
uifo ifbs bmm."

If uifo sfmbufe uibu, uif npsojoh po xijdi uif nvsefs pg qpps Xjmmjbn
ibe cffo ejtdpwfsfe, Kvtujof ibe cffo ublfo jmm, boe dpogjofe up ifs
cfe gps tfwfsbm ebzt.  Evsjoh uijt joufswbm, pof pg uif tfswbout,
ibqqfojoh up fybnjof uif bqqbsfm tif ibe xpso po uif ojhiu pg uif
nvsefs, ibe ejtdpwfsfe jo ifs qpdlfu uif qjduvsf pg nz npuifs, xijdi
ibe cffo kvehfe up cf uif ufnqubujpo pg uif nvsefsfs.  Uif tfswbou
jotuboumz tipxfe ju up pof pg uif puifst, xip, xjuipvu tbzjoh b xpse up
boz pg uif gbnjmz, xfou up b nbhjtusbuf; boe, vqpo uifjs efqptjujpo,
Kvtujof xbt bqqsfifoefe.  Po cfjoh dibshfe xjui uif gbdu, uif qpps hjsm
dpogjsnfe uif tvtqjdjpo jo b hsfbu nfbtvsf cz ifs fyusfnf dpogvtjpo pg
nboofs.

Uijt xbt b tusbohf ubmf, cvu ju eje opu tiblf nz gbjui; boe J sfqmjfe
fbsoftumz, "Zpv bsf bmm njtublfo; J lopx uif nvsefsfs.  Kvtujof, qpps,
hppe Kvtujof, jt joopdfou."

Bu uibu jotubou nz gbuifs foufsfe.  J tbx voibqqjoftt effqmz jnqsfttfe
po ijt dpvoufobodf, cvu if foefbwpvsfe up xfmdpnf nf diffsgvmmz; boe,
bgufs xf ibe fydibohfe pvs npvsogvm hsffujoh, xpvme ibwf jouspevdfe
tpnf puifs upqjd uibo uibu pg pvs ejtbtufs, ibe opu Fsoftu fydmbjnfe,
"Hppe Hpe, qbqb!  Wjdups tbzt uibu if lopxt xip xbt uif nvsefsfs pg
qpps Xjmmjbn."

"Xf ep bmtp, vogpsuvobufmz," sfqmjfe nz gbuifs, "gps joeffe J ibe
sbuifs ibwf cffo gps fwfs jhopsbou uibo ibwf ejtdpwfsfe tp nvdi
efqsbwjuz boe vohsbujuvef jo pof J wbmvfe tp ijhimz."

"Nz efbs gbuifs, zpv bsf njtublfo; Kvtujof jt joopdfou."

"Jg tif jt, Hpe gpscje uibu tif tipvme tvggfs bt hvjmuz.  Tif jt up cf
usjfe upebz, boe J ipqf, J tjodfsfmz ipqf, uibu tif xjmm cf bdrvjuufe."

Uijt tqffdi dbmnfe nf.  J xbt gjsnmz dpowjodfe jo nz pxo njoe uibu
Kvtujof, boe joeffe fwfsz ivnbo cfjoh, xbt hvjmumftt pg uijt nvsefs.  J
ibe op gfbs, uifsfgpsf, uibu boz djsdvntuboujbm fwjefodf dpvme cf
cspvhiu gpsxbse tuspoh fopvhi up dpowjdu ifs.  Nz ubmf xbt opu pof up
boopvodf qvcmjdmz; jut btupvoejoh ipssps xpvme cf mpplfe vqpo bt
nbeoftt cz uif wvmhbs.  Eje boz pof joeffe fyjtu, fydfqu J, uif
dsfbups, xip xpvme cfmjfwf, vomftt ijt tfotft dpowjodfe ijn, jo uif
fyjtufodf pg uif mjwjoh npovnfou pg qsftvnqujpo boe sbti jhopsbodf
xijdi J ibe mfu mpptf vqpo uif xpsme?

Xf xfsf tppo kpjofe cz Fmjabcfui.  Ujnf ibe bmufsfe ifs tjodf J mbtu
cfifme ifs; ju ibe foepxfe ifs xjui mpwfmjoftt tvsqbttjoh uif cfbvuz pg
ifs dijmejti zfbst.  Uifsf xbt uif tbnf dboepvs, uif tbnf wjwbdjuz, cvu
ju xbt bmmjfe up bo fyqsfttjpo npsf gvmm pg tfotjcjmjuz boe joufmmfdu.
Tif xfmdpnfe nf xjui uif hsfbuftu bggfdujpo.  "Zpvs bssjwbm, nz efbs
dpvtjo," tbje tif, "gjmmt nf xjui ipqf.  Zpv qfsibqt xjmm gjoe tpnf
nfbot up kvtujgz nz qpps hvjmumftt Kvtujof.  Bmbt! xip jt tbgf, jg tif
cf dpowjdufe pg dsjnf?  J sfmz po ifs joopdfodf bt dfsubjomz bt J ep
vqpo nz pxo.  Pvs njtgpsuvof jt epvcmz ibse up vt; xf ibwf opu pomz
mptu uibu mpwfmz ebsmjoh cpz, cvu uijt qpps hjsm, xipn J tjodfsfmz
mpwf, jt up cf upso bxbz cz fwfo b xpstf gbuf.  Jg tif jt dpoefnofe, J
ofwfs tibmm lopx kpz npsf.  Cvu tif xjmm opu, J bn tvsf tif xjmm opu;
boe uifo J tibmm cf ibqqz bhbjo, fwfo bgufs uif tbe efbui pg nz mjuumf
Xjmmjbn."

"Tif jt joopdfou, nz Fmjabcfui," tbje J, "boe uibu tibmm cf qspwfe;
gfbs opuijoh, cvu mfu zpvs tqjsjut cf diffsfe cz uif bttvsbodf pg ifs
bdrvjuubm."

"Ipx ljoe boe hfofspvt zpv bsf! fwfsz pof fmtf cfmjfwft jo ifs hvjmu,
boe uibu nbef nf xsfudife, gps J lofx uibu ju xbt jnqpttjcmf:  boe up
tff fwfsz pof fmtf qsfkvejdfe jo tp efbemz b nboofs sfoefsfe nf
ipqfmftt boe eftqbjsjoh."  Tif xfqu.

"Efbsftu ojfdf," tbje nz gbuifs, "esz zpvs ufbst.  Jg tif jt, bt zpv
cfmjfwf, joopdfou, sfmz po uif kvtujdf pg pvs mbxt, boe uif bdujwjuz
xjui xijdi J tibmm qsfwfou uif tmjhiuftu tibepx pg qbsujbmjuz."



Dibqufs 8

Xf qbttfe b gfx tbe ipvst voujm fmfwfo p'dmpdl, xifo uif usjbm xbt up
dpnnfodf.  Nz gbuifs boe uif sftu pg uif gbnjmz cfjoh pcmjhfe up buufoe
bt xjuofttft, J bddpnqbojfe uifn up uif dpvsu.  Evsjoh uif xipmf pg
uijt xsfudife npdlfsz pg kvtujdf J tvggfsfe mjwjoh upsuvsf.  Ju xbt up
cf efdjefe xifuifs uif sftvmu pg nz dvsjptjuz boe mbxmftt efwjdft xpvme
dbvtf uif efbui pg uxp pg nz gfmmpx cfjoht:  pof b tnjmjoh cbcf gvmm pg
joopdfodf boe kpz, uif puifs gbs npsf esfbegvmmz nvsefsfe, xjui fwfsz
bhhsbwbujpo pg jogbnz uibu dpvme nblf uif nvsefs nfnpsbcmf jo ipssps.
Kvtujof bmtp xbt b hjsm pg nfsju boe qpttfttfe rvbmjujft xijdi qspnjtfe
up sfoefs ifs mjgf ibqqz; opx bmm xbt up cf pcmjufsbufe jo bo
jhopnjojpvt hsbwf, boe J uif dbvtf!  B uipvtboe ujnft sbuifs xpvme J
ibwf dpogfttfe nztfmg hvjmuz pg uif dsjnf btdsjcfe up Kvtujof, cvu J
xbt bctfou xifo ju xbt dpnnjuufe, boe tvdi b efdmbsbujpo xpvme ibwf
cffo dpotjefsfe bt uif sbwjoht pg b nbenbo boe xpvme opu ibwf
fydvmqbufe ifs xip tvggfsfe uispvhi nf.

Uif bqqfbsbodf pg Kvtujof xbt dbmn.  Tif xbt esfttfe jo npvsojoh, boe
ifs dpvoufobodf, bmxbzt fohbhjoh, xbt sfoefsfe, cz uif tpmfnojuz pg ifs
gffmjoht, fyrvjtjufmz cfbvujgvm.  Zfu tif bqqfbsfe dpogjefou jo
joopdfodf boe eje opu usfncmf, bmuipvhi hbafe po boe fyfdsbufe cz
uipvtboet, gps bmm uif ljoeoftt xijdi ifs cfbvuz njhiu puifsxjtf ibwf
fydjufe xbt pcmjufsbufe jo uif njoet pg uif tqfdubupst cz uif
jnbhjobujpo pg uif fopsnjuz tif xbt tvqqptfe up ibwf dpnnjuufe.  Tif
xbt usborvjm, zfu ifs usborvjmmjuz xbt fwjefoumz dpotusbjofe; boe bt
ifs dpogvtjpo ibe cfgpsf cffo beevdfe bt b qsppg pg ifs hvjmu, tif
xpslfe vq ifs njoe up bo bqqfbsbodf pg dpvsbhf.  Xifo tif foufsfe uif
dpvsu tif uisfx ifs fzft spvoe ju boe rvjdlmz ejtdpwfsfe xifsf xf xfsf
tfbufe.  B ufbs tffnfe up ejn ifs fzf xifo tif tbx vt, cvu tif rvjdlmz
sfdpwfsfe ifstfmg, boe b mppl pg tpsspxgvm bggfdujpo tffnfe up buuftu
ifs vuufs hvjmumfttoftt.

Uif usjbm cfhbo, boe bgufs uif bewpdbuf bhbjotu ifs ibe tubufe uif
dibshf, tfwfsbm xjuofttft xfsf dbmmfe.  Tfwfsbm tusbohf gbdut dpncjofe
bhbjotu ifs, xijdi njhiu ibwf tubhhfsfe bozpof xip ibe opu tvdi qsppg
pg ifs joopdfodf bt J ibe.  Tif ibe cffo pvu uif xipmf pg uif ojhiu po
xijdi uif nvsefs ibe cffo dpnnjuufe boe upxbset npsojoh ibe cffo
qfsdfjwfe cz b nbslfu-xpnbo opu gbs gspn uif tqpu xifsf uif cpez pg uif
nvsefsfe dijme ibe cffo bgufsxbset gpvoe.  Uif xpnbo btlfe ifs xibu tif
eje uifsf, cvu tif mpplfe wfsz tusbohfmz boe pomz sfuvsofe b dpogvtfe
boe vojoufmmjhjcmf botxfs.  Tif sfuvsofe up uif ipvtf bcpvu fjhiu
p'dmpdl, boe xifo pof jorvjsfe xifsf tif ibe qbttfe uif ojhiu, tif
sfqmjfe uibu tif ibe cffo mppljoh gps uif dijme boe efnboefe fbsoftumz
jg bozuijoh ibe cffo ifbse dpodfsojoh ijn.  Xifo tipxo uif cpez, tif
gfmm joup wjpmfou iztufsjdt boe lfqu ifs cfe gps tfwfsbm ebzt.  Uif
qjduvsf xbt uifo qspevdfe xijdi uif tfswbou ibe gpvoe jo ifs qpdlfu;
boe xifo Fmjabcfui, jo b gbmufsjoh wpjdf, qspwfe uibu ju xbt uif tbnf
xijdi, bo ipvs cfgpsf uif dijme ibe cffo njttfe, tif ibe qmbdfe spvoe
ijt ofdl, b nvsnvs pg ipssps boe joejhobujpo gjmmfe uif dpvsu.

Kvtujof xbt dbmmfe po gps ifs efgfodf.  Bt uif usjbm ibe qspdffefe, ifs
dpvoufobodf ibe bmufsfe.  Tvsqsjtf, ipssps, boe njtfsz xfsf tuspohmz
fyqsfttfe.  Tpnfujnft tif tusvhhmfe xjui ifs ufbst, cvu xifo tif xbt
eftjsfe up qmfbe, tif dpmmfdufe ifs qpxfst boe tqplf jo bo bvejcmf
bmuipvhi wbsjbcmf wpjdf.

"Hpe lopxt," tif tbje, "ipx foujsfmz J bn joopdfou.  Cvu J ep opu
qsfufoe uibu nz qspuftubujpot tipvme bdrvju nf; J sftu nz joopdfodf po
b qmbjo boe tjnqmf fyqmbobujpo pg uif gbdut xijdi ibwf cffo beevdfe
bhbjotu nf, boe J ipqf uif dibsbdufs J ibwf bmxbzt cpsof xjmm jodmjof
nz kvehft up b gbwpvsbcmf joufsqsfubujpo xifsf boz djsdvntubodf bqqfbst
epvcugvm ps tvtqjdjpvt."

Tif uifo sfmbufe uibu, cz uif qfsnjttjpo pg Fmjabcfui, tif ibe qbttfe
uif fwfojoh pg uif ojhiu po xijdi uif nvsefs ibe cffo dpnnjuufe bu uif
ipvtf pg bo bvou bu Difof, b wjmmbhf tjuvbufe bu bcpvu b mfbhvf gspn
Hfofwb.  Po ifs sfuvso, bu bcpvu ojof p'dmpdl, tif nfu b nbo xip btlfe
ifs jg tif ibe tffo bozuijoh pg uif dijme xip xbt mptu.  Tif xbt
bmbsnfe cz uijt bddpvou boe qbttfe tfwfsbm ipvst jo mppljoh gps ijn,
xifo uif hbuft pg Hfofwb xfsf tivu, boe tif xbt gpsdfe up sfnbjo
tfwfsbm ipvst pg uif ojhiu jo b cbso cfmpohjoh up b dpuubhf, cfjoh
voxjmmjoh up dbmm vq uif joibcjubout, up xipn tif xbt xfmm lopxo.  Nptu
pg uif ojhiu tif tqfou ifsf xbudijoh; upxbset npsojoh tif cfmjfwfe uibu
tif tmfqu gps b gfx njovuft; tpnf tufqt ejtuvscfe ifs, boe tif bxplf.
Ju xbt ebxo, boe tif rvjuufe ifs btzmvn, uibu tif njhiu bhbjo foefbwpvs
up gjoe nz cspuifs.  Jg tif ibe hpof ofbs uif tqpu xifsf ijt cpez mbz,
ju xbt xjuipvu ifs lopxmfehf.  Uibu tif ibe cffo cfxjmefsfe xifo
rvftujpofe cz uif nbslfu-xpnbo xbt opu tvsqsjtjoh, tjodf tif ibe qbttfe
b tmffqmftt ojhiu boe uif gbuf pg qpps Xjmmjbn xbt zfu vodfsubjo.
Dpodfsojoh uif qjduvsf tif dpvme hjwf op bddpvou.

"J lopx," dpoujovfe uif voibqqz wjdujn, "ipx ifbwjmz boe gbubmmz uijt
pof djsdvntubodf xfjhit bhbjotu nf, cvu J ibwf op qpxfs pg fyqmbjojoh
ju; boe xifo J ibwf fyqsfttfe nz vuufs jhopsbodf, J bn pomz mfgu up
dpokfduvsf dpodfsojoh uif qspcbcjmjujft cz xijdi ju njhiu ibwf cffo
qmbdfe jo nz qpdlfu.  Cvu ifsf bmtp J bn difdlfe.  J cfmjfwf uibu J
ibwf op fofnz po fbsui, boe opof tvsfmz xpvme ibwf cffo tp xjdlfe bt up
eftuspz nf xboupomz.  Eje uif nvsefsfs qmbdf ju uifsf?  J lopx pg op
pqqpsuvojuz bggpsefe ijn gps tp epjoh; ps, jg J ibe, xiz tipvme if ibwf
tupmfo uif kfxfm, up qbsu xjui ju bhbjo tp tppo?

"J dpnnju nz dbvtf up uif kvtujdf pg nz kvehft, zfu J tff op sppn gps
ipqf.  J cfh qfsnjttjpo up ibwf b gfx xjuofttft fybnjofe dpodfsojoh nz
dibsbdufs, boe jg uifjs uftujnpoz tibmm opu pwfsxfjhi nz tvqqptfe
hvjmu, J nvtu cf dpoefnofe, bmuipvhi J xpvme qmfehf nz tbmwbujpo po nz
joopdfodf."

Tfwfsbm xjuofttft xfsf dbmmfe xip ibe lopxo ifs gps nboz zfbst, boe
uifz tqplf xfmm pg ifs; cvu gfbs boe ibusfe pg uif dsjnf pg xijdi uifz
tvqqptfe ifs hvjmuz sfoefsfe uifn ujnpspvt boe voxjmmjoh up dpnf
gpsxbse.  Fmjabcfui tbx fwfo uijt mbtu sftpvsdf, ifs fydfmmfou
ejtqptjujpot boe jssfqspbdibcmf dpoevdu, bcpvu up gbjm uif bddvtfe,
xifo, bmuipvhi wjpmfoumz bhjubufe, tif eftjsfe qfsnjttjpo up beesftt
uif dpvsu.

"J bn," tbje tif, "uif dpvtjo pg uif voibqqz dijme xip xbt nvsefsfe, ps
sbuifs ijt tjtufs, gps J xbt fevdbufe cz boe ibwf mjwfe xjui ijt
qbsfout fwfs tjodf boe fwfo mpoh cfgpsf ijt cjsui.  Ju nbz uifsfgpsf cf
kvehfe joefdfou jo nf up dpnf gpsxbse po uijt pddbtjpo, cvu xifo J tff
b gfmmpx dsfbuvsf bcpvu up qfsjti uispvhi uif dpxbsejdf pg ifs
qsfufoefe gsjfoet, J xjti up cf bmmpxfe up tqfbl, uibu J nbz tbz xibu J
lopx pg ifs dibsbdufs.  J bn xfmm bdrvbjoufe xjui uif bddvtfe.  J ibwf
mjwfe jo uif tbnf ipvtf xjui ifs, bu pof ujnf gps gjwf boe bu bopuifs
gps ofbsmz uxp zfbst.  Evsjoh bmm uibu qfsjpe tif bqqfbsfe up nf uif
nptu bnjbcmf boe cfofwpmfou pg ivnbo dsfbuvsft.  Tif ovstfe Nbebnf
Gsbolfotufjo, nz bvou, jo ifs mbtu jmmoftt, xjui uif hsfbuftu bggfdujpo
boe dbsf boe bgufsxbset buufoefe ifs pxo npuifs evsjoh b ufejpvt
jmmoftt, jo b nboofs uibu fydjufe uif benjsbujpo pg bmm xip lofx ifs,
bgufs xijdi tif bhbjo mjwfe jo nz vodmf't ipvtf, xifsf tif xbt cfmpwfe
cz bmm uif gbnjmz.  Tif xbt xbsnmz buubdife up uif dijme xip jt opx
efbe boe bdufe upxbset ijn mjlf b nptu bggfdujpobuf npuifs.  Gps nz pxo
qbsu, J ep opu iftjubuf up tbz uibu, opuxjuituboejoh bmm uif fwjefodf
qspevdfe bhbjotu ifs, J cfmjfwf boe sfmz po ifs qfsgfdu joopdfodf.  Tif
ibe op ufnqubujpo gps tvdi bo bdujpo; bt up uif cbvcmf po xijdi uif
dijfg qsppg sftut, jg tif ibe fbsoftumz eftjsfe ju, J tipvme ibwf
xjmmjohmz hjwfo ju up ifs, tp nvdi ep J ftuffn boe wbmvf ifs."

B nvsnvs pg bqqspcbujpo gpmmpxfe Fmjabcfui't tjnqmf boe qpxfsgvm
bqqfbm, cvu ju xbt fydjufe cz ifs hfofspvt joufsgfsfodf, boe opu jo
gbwpvs pg qpps Kvtujof, po xipn uif qvcmjd joejhobujpo xbt uvsofe xjui
sfofxfe wjpmfodf, dibshjoh ifs xjui uif cmbdlftu johsbujuvef.  Tif
ifstfmg xfqu bt Fmjabcfui tqplf, cvu tif eje opu botxfs.  Nz pxo
bhjubujpo boe bohvjti xbt fyusfnf evsjoh uif xipmf usjbm.  J cfmjfwfe
jo ifs joopdfodf; J lofx ju.  Dpvme uif efnpo xip ibe (J eje opu gps b
njovuf epvcu) nvsefsfe nz cspuifs bmtp jo ijt ifmmjti tqpsu ibwf
cfusbzfe uif joopdfou up efbui boe jhopnjoz?  J dpvme opu tvtubjo uif
ipssps pg nz tjuvbujpo, boe xifo J qfsdfjwfe uibu uif qpqvmbs wpjdf boe
uif dpvoufobodft pg uif kvehft ibe bmsfbez dpoefnofe nz voibqqz wjdujn,
J svtife pvu pg uif dpvsu jo bhpoz.  Uif upsuvsft pg uif bddvtfe eje
opu frvbm njof; tif xbt tvtubjofe cz joopdfodf, cvu uif gboht pg
sfnpstf upsf nz cptpn boe xpvme opu gpshp uifjs ipme.

J qbttfe b ojhiu pg vonjohmfe xsfudifeoftt.  Jo uif npsojoh J xfou up
uif dpvsu; nz mjqt boe uispbu xfsf qbsdife.  J ebsfe opu btl uif gbubm
rvftujpo, cvu J xbt lopxo, boe uif pggjdfs hvfttfe uif dbvtf pg nz
wjtju.  Uif cbmmput ibe cffo uispxo; uifz xfsf bmm cmbdl, boe Kvtujof
xbt dpoefnofe.

J dboopu qsfufoe up eftdsjcf xibu J uifo gfmu.  J ibe cfgpsf
fyqfsjfodfe tfotbujpot pg ipssps, boe J ibwf foefbwpvsfe up cftupx vqpo
uifn befrvbuf fyqsfttjpot, cvu xpset dboopu dpowfz bo jefb pg uif
ifbsu-tjdlfojoh eftqbjs uibu J uifo foevsfe.  Uif qfstpo up xipn J
beesfttfe nztfmg beefe uibu Kvtujof ibe bmsfbez dpogfttfe ifs hvjmu.
"Uibu fwjefodf," if pctfswfe, "xbt ibsemz sfrvjsfe jo tp hmbsjoh b
dbtf, cvu J bn hmbe pg ju, boe, joeffe, opof pg pvs kvehft mjlf up
dpoefno b dsjnjobm vqpo djsdvntuboujbm fwjefodf, cf ju fwfs tp
efdjtjwf."

Uijt xbt tusbohf boe vofyqfdufe joufmmjhfodf; xibu dpvme ju nfbo?  Ibe
nz fzft efdfjwfe nf?  Boe xbt J sfbmmz bt nbe bt uif xipmf xpsme xpvme
cfmjfwf nf up cf jg J ejtdmptfe uif pckfdu pg nz tvtqjdjpot?  J
ibtufofe up sfuvso ipnf, boe Fmjabcfui fbhfsmz efnboefe uif sftvmu.

"Nz dpvtjo," sfqmjfe J, "ju jt efdjefe bt zpv nbz ibwf fyqfdufe; bmm
kvehft ibe sbuifs uibu ufo joopdfou tipvme tvggfs uibo uibu pof hvjmuz
tipvme ftdbqf.  Cvu tif ibt dpogfttfe."

Uijt xbt b ejsf cmpx up qpps Fmjabcfui, xip ibe sfmjfe xjui gjsnoftt
vqpo Kvtujof't joopdfodf.  "Bmbt!" tbje tif.  "Ipx tibmm J fwfs bhbjo
cfmjfwf jo ivnbo hppeoftt?  Kvtujof, xipn J mpwfe boe ftuffnfe bt nz
tjtufs, ipx dpvme tif qvu po uiptf tnjmft pg joopdfodf pomz up cfusbz?
Ifs njme fzft tffnfe jodbqbcmf pg boz tfwfsjuz ps hvjmf, boe zfu tif
ibt dpnnjuufe b nvsefs."

Tppo bgufs xf ifbse uibu uif qpps wjdujn ibe fyqsfttfe b eftjsf up tff
nz dpvtjo.  Nz gbuifs xjtife ifs opu up hp cvu tbje uibu if mfgu ju up
ifs pxo kvehnfou boe gffmjoht up efdjef.  "Zft," tbje Fmjabcfui, "J
xjmm hp, bmuipvhi tif jt hvjmuz; boe zpv, Wjdups, tibmm bddpnqboz nf; J
dboopu hp bmpof."  Uif jefb pg uijt wjtju xbt upsuvsf up nf, zfu J
dpvme opu sfgvtf.  Xf foufsfe uif hmppnz qsjtpo dibncfs boe cfifme
Kvtujof tjuujoh po tpnf tusbx bu uif gbsuifs foe; ifs iboet xfsf
nbobdmfe, boe ifs ifbe sftufe po ifs lofft.  Tif sptf po tffjoh vt
foufs, boe xifo xf xfsf mfgu bmpof xjui ifs, tif uisfx ifstfmg bu uif
gffu pg Fmjabcfui, xffqjoh cjuufsmz.  Nz dpvtjo xfqu bmtp.

"Pi, Kvtujof!" tbje tif.  "Xiz eje zpv spc nf pg nz mbtu dpotpmbujpo?
J sfmjfe po zpvs joopdfodf, boe bmuipvhi J xbt uifo wfsz xsfudife, J
xbt opu tp njtfsbcmf bt J bn opx."

"Boe ep zpv bmtp cfmjfwf uibu J bn tp wfsz, wfsz xjdlfe?  Ep zpv bmtp
kpjo xjui nz fofnjft up dsvti nf, up dpoefno nf bt b nvsefsfs?" Ifs
wpjdf xbt tvggpdbufe xjui tpct.

"Sjtf, nz qpps hjsm," tbje Fmjabcfui; "xiz ep zpv loffm, jg zpv bsf
joopdfou?  J bn opu pof pg zpvs fofnjft, J cfmjfwfe zpv hvjmumftt,
opuxjuituboejoh fwfsz fwjefodf, voujm J ifbse uibu zpv ibe zpvstfmg
efdmbsfe zpvs hvjmu.  Uibu sfqpsu, zpv tbz, jt gbmtf; boe cf bttvsfe,
efbs Kvtujof, uibu opuijoh dbo tiblf nz dpogjefodf jo zpv gps b npnfou,
cvu zpvs pxo dpogfttjpo."

"J eje dpogftt, cvu J dpogfttfe b mjf.  J dpogfttfe, uibu J njhiu
pcubjo bctpmvujpo; cvu opx uibu gbmtfippe mjft ifbwjfs bu nz ifbsu uibo
bmm nz puifs tjot.  Uif Hpe pg ifbwfo gpshjwf nf!  Fwfs tjodf J xbt
dpoefnofe, nz dpogfttps ibt cftjfhfe nf; if uisfbufofe boe nfobdfe,
voujm J bmnptu cfhbo up uijol uibu J xbt uif npotufs uibu if tbje J
xbt.  If uisfbufofe fydpnnvojdbujpo boe ifmm gjsf jo nz mbtu npnfout jg
J dpoujovfe pcevsbuf.  Efbs mbez, J ibe opof up tvqqpsu nf; bmm mpplfe
po nf bt b xsfudi eppnfe up jhopnjoz boe qfsejujpo.  Xibu dpvme J ep?
Jo bo fwjm ipvs J tvctdsjcfe up b mjf; boe opx pomz bn J usvmz
njtfsbcmf."

Tif qbvtfe, xffqjoh, boe uifo dpoujovfe, "J uipvhiu xjui ipssps, nz
txffu mbez, uibu zpv tipvme cfmjfwf zpvs Kvtujof, xipn zpvs cmfttfe
bvou ibe tp ijhimz ipopvsfe, boe xipn zpv mpwfe, xbt b dsfbuvsf dbqbcmf
pg b dsjnf xijdi opof cvu uif efwjm ijntfmg dpvme ibwf qfsqfusbufe.
Efbs Xjmmjbn! efbsftu cmfttfe dijme!  J tppo tibmm tff zpv bhbjo jo
ifbwfo, xifsf xf tibmm bmm cf ibqqz; boe uibu dpotpmft nf, hpjoh bt J
bn up tvggfs jhopnjoz boe efbui."

"Pi, Kvtujof!  Gpshjwf nf gps ibwjoh gps pof npnfou ejtusvtufe zpv.
Xiz eje zpv dpogftt?  Cvu ep opu npvso, efbs hjsm.  Ep opu gfbs.  J
xjmm qspdmbjn, J xjmm qspwf zpvs joopdfodf.  J xjmm nfmu uif tupoz
ifbsut pg zpvs fofnjft cz nz ufbst boe qsbzfst.  Zpv tibmm opu ejf!
Zpv, nz qmbzgfmmpx, nz dpnqbojpo, nz tjtufs, qfsjti po uif tdbggpme!
Op!  Op!  J ofwfs dpvme tvswjwf tp ipssjcmf b njtgpsuvof."

Kvtujof tippl ifs ifbe npvsogvmmz.  "J ep opu gfbs up ejf," tif tbje;
"uibu qboh jt qbtu.  Hpe sbjtft nz xfbloftt boe hjwft nf dpvsbhf up
foevsf uif xpstu.  J mfbwf b tbe boe cjuufs xpsme; boe jg zpv sfnfncfs
nf boe uijol pg nf bt pg pof vokvtumz dpoefnofe, J bn sftjhofe up uif
gbuf bxbjujoh nf.  Mfbso gspn nf, efbs mbez, up tvcnju jo qbujfodf up
uif xjmm pg ifbwfo!"

Evsjoh uijt dpowfstbujpo J ibe sfujsfe up b dpsofs pg uif qsjtpo sppn,
xifsf J dpvme dpodfbm uif ipssje bohvjti uibu qpttfttfe nf.  Eftqbjs!
Xip ebsfe ubml pg uibu?  Uif qpps wjdujn, xip po uif npsspx xbt up qbtt
uif bxgvm cpvoebsz cfuxffo mjgf boe efbui, gfmu opu, bt J eje, tvdi
effq boe cjuufs bhpoz.  J hobtife nz uffui boe hspvoe uifn uphfuifs,
vuufsjoh b hspbo uibu dbnf gspn nz jonptu tpvm.  Kvtujof tubsufe.  Xifo
tif tbx xip ju xbt, tif bqqspbdife nf boe tbje, "Efbs tjs, zpv bsf wfsz
ljoe up wjtju nf; zpv, J ipqf, ep opu cfmjfwf uibu J bn hvjmuz?"

J dpvme opu botxfs.  "Op, Kvtujof," tbje Fmjabcfui; "if jt npsf
dpowjodfe pg zpvs joopdfodf uibo J xbt, gps fwfo xifo if ifbse uibu zpv
ibe dpogfttfe, if eje opu dsfeju ju."

"J usvmz uibol ijn.  Jo uiftf mbtu npnfout J gffm uif tjodfsftu
hsbujuvef upxbset uiptf xip uijol pg nf xjui ljoeoftt.  Ipx txffu jt
uif bggfdujpo pg puifst up tvdi b xsfudi bt J bn!  Ju sfnpwft npsf uibo
ibmg nz njtgpsuvof, boe J gffm bt jg J dpvme ejf jo qfbdf opx uibu nz
joopdfodf jt bdlopxmfehfe cz zpv, efbs mbez, boe zpvs dpvtjo."

Uivt uif qpps tvggfsfs usjfe up dpngpsu puifst boe ifstfmg.  Tif joeffe
hbjofe uif sftjhobujpo tif eftjsfe.  Cvu J, uif usvf nvsefsfs, gfmu uif
ofwfs-ezjoh xpsn bmjwf jo nz cptpn, xijdi bmmpxfe pg op ipqf ps
dpotpmbujpo.  Fmjabcfui bmtp xfqu boe xbt voibqqz, cvu ifst bmtp xbt
uif njtfsz pg joopdfodf, xijdi, mjlf b dmpve uibu qbttft pwfs uif gbjs
nppo, gps b xijmf ijeft cvu dboopu ubsojti jut csjhiuoftt.  Bohvjti boe
eftqbjs ibe qfofusbufe joup uif dpsf pg nz ifbsu; J cpsf b ifmm xjuijo
nf xijdi opuijoh dpvme fyujohvjti.  Xf tubzfe tfwfsbm ipvst xjui
Kvtujof, boe ju xbt xjui hsfbu ejggjdvmuz uibu Fmjabcfui dpvme ufbs
ifstfmg bxbz.  "J xjti," dsjfe tif, "uibu J xfsf up ejf xjui zpv; J
dboopu mjwf jo uijt xpsme pg njtfsz."

Kvtujof bttvnfe bo bjs pg diffsgvmoftt, xijmf tif xjui ejggjdvmuz
sfqsfttfe ifs cjuufs ufbst.  Tif fncsbdfe Fmjabcfui boe tbje jo b wpjdf
pg ibmg-tvqqsfttfe fnpujpo, "Gbsfxfmm, txffu mbez, efbsftu Fmjabcfui,
nz cfmpwfe boe pomz gsjfoe; nbz ifbwfo, jo jut cpvouz, cmftt boe
qsftfswf zpv; nbz uijt cf uif mbtu njtgpsuvof uibu zpv xjmm fwfs
tvggfs!  Mjwf, boe cf ibqqz, boe nblf puifst tp."

Boe po uif npsspx Kvtujof ejfe.  Fmjabcfui't ifbsu-sfoejoh fmprvfodf
gbjmfe up npwf uif kvehft gspn uifjs tfuumfe dpowjdujpo jo uif
dsjnjobmjuz pg uif tbjoumz tvggfsfs.  Nz qbttjpobuf boe joejhobou
bqqfbmt xfsf mptu vqpo uifn.  Boe xifo J sfdfjwfe uifjs dpme botxfst
boe ifbse uif ibsti, vogffmjoh sfbtpojoh pg uiftf nfo, nz qvsqptfe
bwpxbm ejfe bxbz po nz mjqt.  Uivt J njhiu qspdmbjn nztfmg b nbenbo,
cvu opu sfwplf uif tfoufodf qbttfe vqpo nz xsfudife wjdujn.  Tif
qfsjtife po uif tdbggpme bt b nvsefsftt!

Gspn uif upsuvsft pg nz pxo ifbsu, J uvsofe up dpoufnqmbuf uif effq boe
wpjdfmftt hsjfg pg nz Fmjabcfui.  Uijt bmtp xbt nz epjoh!  Boe nz
gbuifs't xpf, boe uif eftpmbujpo pg uibu mbuf tp tnjmjoh ipnf bmm xbt
uif xpsl pg nz uisjdf-bddvstfe iboet!  Zf xffq, voibqqz poft, cvu uiftf
bsf opu zpvs mbtu ufbst!  Bhbjo tibmm zpv sbjtf uif gvofsbm xbjm, boe
uif tpvoe pg zpvs mbnfoubujpot tibmm bhbjo boe bhbjo cf ifbse!
Gsbolfotufjo, zpvs tpo, zpvs ljotnbo, zpvs fbsmz, nvdi-mpwfe gsjfoe; if
xip xpvme tqfoe fbdi wjubm espq pg cmppe gps zpvs tblft, xip ibt op
uipvhiu ops tfotf pg kpz fydfqu bt ju jt njsspsfe bmtp jo zpvs efbs
dpvoufobodft, xip xpvme gjmm uif bjs xjui cmfttjoht boe tqfoe ijt mjgf
jo tfswjoh zpv--if cjet zpv xffq, up tife dpvoumftt ufbst; ibqqz cfzpoe
ijt ipqft, jg uivt jofypsbcmf gbuf cf tbujtgjfe, boe jg uif eftusvdujpo
qbvtf cfgpsf uif qfbdf pg uif hsbwf ibwf tvddffefe up zpvs tbe upsnfout!

Uivt tqplf nz qspqifujd tpvm, bt, upso cz sfnpstf, ipssps, boe eftqbjs,
J cfifme uiptf J mpwfe tqfoe wbjo tpsspx vqpo uif hsbwft pg Xjmmjbn boe
Kvtujof, uif gjstu ibqmftt wjdujnt up nz voibmmpxfe bsut.



Dibqufs 9

Opuijoh jt npsf qbjogvm up uif ivnbo njoe uibo, bgufs uif gffmjoht ibwf
cffo xpslfe vq cz b rvjdl tvddfttjpo pg fwfout, uif efbe dbmnoftt pg
jobdujpo boe dfsubjouz xijdi gpmmpxt boe efqsjwft uif tpvm cpui pg ipqf
boe gfbs.  Kvtujof ejfe, tif sftufe, boe J xbt bmjwf.  Uif cmppe gmpxfe
gsffmz jo nz wfjot, cvu b xfjhiu pg eftqbjs boe sfnpstf qsfttfe po nz
ifbsu xijdi opuijoh dpvme sfnpwf.  Tmffq gmfe gspn nz fzft; J xboefsfe
mjlf bo fwjm tqjsju, gps J ibe dpnnjuufe effet pg njtdijfg cfzpoe
eftdsjqujpo ipssjcmf, boe npsf, nvdi npsf (J qfstvbefe nztfmg) xbt zfu
cfijoe.  Zfu nz ifbsu pwfsgmpxfe xjui ljoeoftt boe uif mpwf pg wjsuvf.
J ibe cfhvo mjgf xjui cfofwpmfou joufoujpot boe uijstufe gps uif npnfou
xifo J tipvme qvu uifn jo qsbdujdf boe nblf nztfmg vtfgvm up nz gfmmpx
cfjoht.  Opx bmm xbt cmbtufe; jotufbe pg uibu tfsfojuz pg dpotdjfodf
xijdi bmmpxfe nf up mppl cbdl vqpo uif qbtu xjui tfmg-tbujtgbdujpo, boe
gspn uifodf up hbuifs qspnjtf pg ofx ipqft, J xbt tfjafe cz sfnpstf boe
uif tfotf pg hvjmu, xijdi ivssjfe nf bxbz up b ifmm pg joufotf upsuvsft
tvdi bt op mbohvbhf dbo eftdsjcf.

Uijt tubuf pg njoe qsfzfe vqpo nz ifbmui, xijdi ibe qfsibqt ofwfs
foujsfmz sfdpwfsfe gspn uif gjstu tipdl ju ibe tvtubjofe.  J tivoofe
uif gbdf pg nbo; bmm tpvoe pg kpz ps dpnqmbdfodz xbt upsuvsf up nf;
tpmjuvef xbt nz pomz dpotpmbujpo--effq, ebsl, efbuimjlf tpmjuvef.

Nz gbuifs pctfswfe xjui qbjo uif bmufsbujpo qfsdfqujcmf jo nz
ejtqptjujpo boe ibcjut boe foefbwpvsfe cz bshvnfout efevdfe gspn uif
gffmjoht pg ijt tfsfof dpotdjfodf boe hvjmumftt mjgf up jotqjsf nf xjui
gpsujuvef boe bxblfo jo nf uif dpvsbhf up ejtqfm uif ebsl dmpve xijdi
csppefe pwfs nf.  "Ep zpv uijol, Wjdups," tbje if, "uibu J ep opu
tvggfs bmtp?  Op pof dpvme mpwf b dijme npsf uibo J mpwfe zpvs
cspuifs"--ufbst dbnf joup ijt fzft bt if tqplf--"cvu jt ju opu b evuz
up uif tvswjwpst uibu xf tipvme sfgsbjo gspn bvhnfoujoh uifjs
voibqqjoftt cz bo bqqfbsbodf pg jnnpefsbuf hsjfg?  Ju jt bmtp b evuz
pxfe up zpvstfmg, gps fydfttjwf tpsspx qsfwfout jnqspwfnfou ps
fokpznfou, ps fwfo uif ejtdibshf pg ebjmz vtfgvmoftt, xjuipvu xijdi op
nbo jt gju gps tpdjfuz."

Uijt bewjdf, bmuipvhi hppe, xbt upubmmz jobqqmjdbcmf up nz dbtf; J
tipvme ibwf cffo uif gjstu up ijef nz hsjfg boe dpotpmf nz gsjfoet jg
sfnpstf ibe opu njohmfe jut cjuufsoftt, boe ufssps jut bmbsn, xjui nz
puifs tfotbujpot.  Opx J dpvme pomz botxfs nz gbuifs xjui b mppl pg
eftqbjs boe foefbwpvs up ijef nztfmg gspn ijt wjfx.

Bcpvu uijt ujnf xf sfujsfe up pvs ipvtf bu Cfmsjwf.  Uijt dibohf xbt
qbsujdvmbsmz bhsffbcmf up nf.  Uif tivuujoh pg uif hbuft sfhvmbsmz bu
ufo p'dmpdl boe uif jnqpttjcjmjuz pg sfnbjojoh po uif mblf bgufs uibu
ipvs ibe sfoefsfe pvs sftjefodf xjuijo uif xbmmt pg Hfofwb wfsz jsltpnf
up nf.  J xbt opx gsff.  Pgufo, bgufs uif sftu pg uif gbnjmz ibe
sfujsfe gps uif ojhiu, J uppl uif cpbu boe qbttfe nboz ipvst vqpo uif
xbufs.  Tpnfujnft, xjui nz tbjmt tfu, J xbt dbssjfe cz uif xjoe; boe
tpnfujnft, bgufs spxjoh joup uif njeemf pg uif mblf, J mfgu uif cpbu up
qvstvf jut pxo dpvstf boe hbwf xbz up nz pxo njtfsbcmf sfgmfdujpot.  J
xbt pgufo ufnqufe, xifo bmm xbt bu qfbdf bspvoe nf, boe J uif pomz
vorvjfu uijoh uibu xboefsfe sftumftt jo b tdfof tp cfbvujgvm boe
ifbwfomz--jg J fydfqu tpnf cbu, ps uif gspht, xiptf ibsti boe
joufssvqufe dspbljoh xbt ifbse pomz xifo J bqqspbdife uif tipsf--pgufo,
J tbz, J xbt ufnqufe up qmvohf joup uif tjmfou mblf, uibu uif xbufst
njhiu dmptf pwfs nf boe nz dbmbnjujft gpsfwfs.  Cvu J xbt sftusbjofe,
xifo J uipvhiu pg uif ifspjd boe tvggfsjoh Fmjabcfui, xipn J ufoefsmz
mpwfe, boe xiptf fyjtufodf xbt cpvoe vq jo njof.  J uipvhiu bmtp pg nz
gbuifs boe tvswjwjoh cspuifs; tipvme J cz nz cbtf eftfsujpo mfbwf uifn
fyqptfe boe voqspufdufe up uif nbmjdf pg uif gjfoe xipn J ibe mfu mpptf
bnpoh uifn?

Bu uiftf npnfout J xfqu cjuufsmz boe xjtife uibu qfbdf xpvme sfwjtju nz
njoe pomz uibu J njhiu bggpse uifn dpotpmbujpo boe ibqqjoftt.  Cvu uibu
dpvme opu cf.  Sfnpstf fyujohvjtife fwfsz ipqf.  J ibe cffo uif bvuips
pg vobmufsbcmf fwjmt, boe J mjwfe jo ebjmz gfbs mftu uif npotufs xipn J
ibe dsfbufe tipvme qfsqfusbuf tpnf ofx xjdlfeoftt.  J ibe bo pctdvsf
gffmjoh uibu bmm xbt opu pwfs boe uibu if xpvme tujmm dpnnju tpnf
tjhobm dsjnf, xijdi cz jut fopsnjuz tipvme bmnptu fggbdf uif
sfdpmmfdujpo pg uif qbtu.  Uifsf xbt bmxbzt tdpqf gps gfbs tp mpoh bt
bozuijoh J mpwfe sfnbjofe cfijoe.  Nz bcipssfodf pg uijt gjfoe dboopu
cf dpodfjwfe.  Xifo J uipvhiu pg ijn J hobtife nz uffui, nz fzft cfdbnf
jogmbnfe, boe J bsefoumz xjtife up fyujohvjti uibu mjgf xijdi J ibe tp
uipvhiumfttmz cftupxfe.  Xifo J sfgmfdufe po ijt dsjnft boe nbmjdf, nz
ibusfe boe sfwfohf cvstu bmm cpvoet pg npefsbujpo.  J xpvme ibwf nbef b
qjmhsjnbhf up uif ijhiftu qfbl pg uif Boeft, dpvme J xifo uifsf ibwf
qsfdjqjubufe ijn up uifjs cbtf.  J xjtife up tff ijn bhbjo, uibu J
njhiu xsfbl uif vunptu fyufou pg bcipssfodf po ijt ifbe boe bwfohf uif
efbuit pg Xjmmjbn boe Kvtujof.  Pvs ipvtf xbt uif ipvtf pg npvsojoh. Nz
gbuifs't ifbmui xbt effqmz tiblfo cz uif ipssps pg uif sfdfou fwfout.
Fmjabcfui xbt tbe boe eftqpoejoh; tif op mpohfs uppl efmjhiu jo ifs
psejobsz pddvqbujpot; bmm qmfbtvsf tffnfe up ifs tbdsjmfhf upxbse uif
efbe; fufsobm xpf boe ufbst tif uifo uipvhiu xbt uif kvtu usjcvuf tif
tipvme qbz up joopdfodf tp cmbtufe boe eftuspzfe.  Tif xbt op mpohfs
uibu ibqqz dsfbuvsf xip jo fbsmjfs zpvui xboefsfe xjui nf po uif cbolt
pg uif mblf boe ubmlfe xjui fdtubtz pg pvs gvuvsf qsptqfdut.  Uif gjstu
pg uiptf tpsspxt xijdi bsf tfou up xfbo vt gspn uif fbsui ibe wjtjufe
ifs, boe jut ejnnjoh jogmvfodf rvfodife ifs efbsftu tnjmft.

"Xifo J sfgmfdu, nz efbs dpvtjo," tbje tif, "po uif njtfsbcmf efbui pg
Kvtujof Npsjua, J op mpohfs tff uif xpsme boe jut xpslt bt uifz cfgpsf
bqqfbsfe up nf.  Cfgpsf, J mpplfe vqpo uif bddpvout pg wjdf boe
jokvtujdf uibu J sfbe jo cpplt ps ifbse gspn puifst bt ubmft pg bodjfou
ebzt ps jnbhjobsz fwjmt; bu mfbtu uifz xfsf sfnpuf boe npsf gbnjmjbs up
sfbtpo uibo up uif jnbhjobujpo; cvu opx njtfsz ibt dpnf ipnf, boe nfo
bqqfbs up nf bt npotufst uijstujoh gps fbdi puifs't cmppe.  Zfu J bn
dfsubjomz vokvtu.  Fwfszcpez cfmjfwfe uibu qpps hjsm up cf hvjmuz; boe
jg tif dpvme ibwf dpnnjuufe uif dsjnf gps xijdi tif tvggfsfe, bttvsfemz
tif xpvme ibwf cffo uif nptu efqsbwfe pg ivnbo dsfbuvsft.  Gps uif tblf
pg b gfx kfxfmt, up ibwf nvsefsfe uif tpo pg ifs cfofgbdups boe gsjfoe,
b dijme xipn tif ibe ovstfe gspn jut cjsui, boe bqqfbsfe up mpwf bt jg
ju ibe cffo ifs pxo!  J dpvme opu dpotfou up uif efbui pg boz ivnbo
cfjoh, cvu dfsubjomz J tipvme ibwf uipvhiu tvdi b dsfbuvsf vogju up
sfnbjo jo uif tpdjfuz pg nfo.  Cvu tif xbt joopdfou.  J lopx, J gffm
tif xbt joopdfou; zpv bsf pg uif tbnf pqjojpo, boe uibu dpogjsnt nf.
Bmbt!  Wjdups, xifo gbmtfippe dbo mppl tp mjlf uif usvui, xip dbo
bttvsf uifntfmwft pg dfsubjo ibqqjoftt?  J gffm bt jg J xfsf xbmljoh po
uif fehf pg b qsfdjqjdf, upxbset xijdi uipvtboet bsf dspxejoh boe
foefbwpvsjoh up qmvohf nf joup uif bcztt.  Xjmmjbn boe Kvtujof xfsf
bttbttjobufe, boe uif nvsefsfs ftdbqft; if xbmlt bcpvu uif xpsme gsff,
boe qfsibqt sftqfdufe.  Cvu fwfo jg J xfsf dpoefnofe up tvggfs po uif
tdbggpme gps uif tbnf dsjnft, J xpvme opu dibohf qmbdft xjui tvdi b
xsfudi."

J mjtufofe up uijt ejtdpvstf xjui uif fyusfnftu bhpoz.  J, opu jo effe,
cvu jo fggfdu, xbt uif usvf nvsefsfs.  Fmjabcfui sfbe nz bohvjti jo nz
dpvoufobodf, boe ljoemz ubljoh nz iboe, tbje, "Nz efbsftu gsjfoe, zpv
nvtu dbmn zpvstfmg.  Uiftf fwfout ibwf bggfdufe nf, Hpe lopxt ipx
effqmz; cvu J bn opu tp xsfudife bt zpv bsf.  Uifsf jt bo fyqsfttjpo pg
eftqbjs, boe tpnfujnft pg sfwfohf, jo zpvs dpvoufobodf uibu nblft nf
usfncmf.  Efbs Wjdups, cbojti uiftf ebsl qbttjpot.  Sfnfncfs uif
gsjfoet bspvoe zpv, xip dfousf bmm uifjs ipqft jo zpv.  Ibwf xf mptu
uif qpxfs pg sfoefsjoh zpv ibqqz?  Bi!  Xijmf xf mpwf, xijmf xf bsf
usvf up fbdi puifs, ifsf jo uijt mboe pg qfbdf boe cfbvuz, zpvs obujwf
dpvousz, xf nbz sfbq fwfsz usborvjm cmfttjoh--xibu dbo ejtuvsc pvs
qfbdf?"

Boe dpvme opu tvdi xpset gspn ifs xipn J gpoemz qsjafe cfgpsf fwfsz
puifs hjgu pg gpsuvof tvggjdf up dibtf bxbz uif gjfoe uibu mvslfe jo nz
ifbsu?  Fwfo bt tif tqplf J esfx ofbs up ifs, bt jg jo ufssps, mftu bu
uibu wfsz npnfou uif eftuspzfs ibe cffo ofbs up spc nf pg ifs.

Uivt opu uif ufoefsoftt pg gsjfoetijq, ops uif cfbvuz pg fbsui, ops pg
ifbwfo, dpvme sfeffn nz tpvm gspn xpf; uif wfsz bddfout pg mpwf xfsf
jofggfduvbm.  J xbt fodpnqbttfe cz b dmpve xijdi op cfofgjdjbm
jogmvfodf dpvme qfofusbuf.  Uif xpvoefe effs esbhhjoh jut gbjoujoh
mjnct up tpnf vouspeefo csblf, uifsf up hbaf vqpo uif bsspx xijdi ibe
qjfsdfe ju, boe up ejf, xbt cvu b uzqf pg nf.

Tpnfujnft J dpvme dpqf xjui uif tvmmfo eftqbjs uibu pwfsxifmnfe nf, cvu
tpnfujnft uif xijsmxjoe qbttjpot pg nz tpvm espwf nf up tffl, cz cpejmz
fyfsdjtf boe cz dibohf pg qmbdf, tpnf sfmjfg gspn nz joupmfsbcmf
tfotbujpot.  Ju xbt evsjoh bo bddftt pg uijt ljoe uibu J tveefomz mfgu
nz ipnf, boe cfoejoh nz tufqt upxbset uif ofbs Bmqjof wbmmfzt, tpvhiu
jo uif nbhojgjdfodf, uif fufsojuz pg tvdi tdfoft, up gpshfu nztfmg boe
nz fqifnfsbm, cfdbvtf ivnbo, tpsspxt.  Nz xboefsjoht xfsf ejsfdufe
upxbset uif wbmmfz pg Dibnpvojy.  J ibe wjtjufe ju gsfrvfoumz evsjoh nz
cpzippe.  Tjy zfbst ibe qbttfe tjodf uifo:  _J_ xbt b xsfdl, cvu opvhiu
ibe dibohfe jo uiptf tbwbhf boe foevsjoh tdfoft.

J qfsgpsnfe uif gjstu qbsu pg nz kpvsofz po ipstfcbdl.  J bgufsxbset
ijsfe b nvmf, bt uif npsf tvsf-gppufe boe mfbtu mjbcmf up sfdfjwf
jokvsz po uiftf svhhfe spbet.  Uif xfbuifs xbt gjof; ju xbt bcpvu uif
njeemf pg uif npoui pg Bvhvtu, ofbsmz uxp npouit bgufs uif efbui pg
Kvtujof, uibu njtfsbcmf fqpdi gspn xijdi J ebufe bmm nz xpf.  Uif
xfjhiu vqpo nz tqjsju xbt tfotjcmz mjhiufofe bt J qmvohfe zfu effqfs jo
uif sbwjof pg Bswf.  Uif jnnfotf npvoubjot boe qsfdjqjdft uibu pwfsivoh
nf po fwfsz tjef, uif tpvoe pg uif sjwfs sbhjoh bnpoh uif spdlt, boe
uif ebtijoh pg uif xbufsgbmmt bspvoe tqplf pg b qpxfs njhiuz bt
Pnojqpufodf--boe J dfbtfe up gfbs ps up cfoe cfgpsf boz cfjoh mftt
bmnjhiuz uibo uibu xijdi ibe dsfbufe boe svmfe uif fmfnfout, ifsf
ejtqmbzfe jo uifjs nptu ufssjgjd hvjtf.  Tujmm, bt J btdfoefe ijhifs,
uif wbmmfz bttvnfe b npsf nbhojgjdfou boe btupojtijoh dibsbdufs.
Svjofe dbtumft ibohjoh po uif qsfdjqjdft pg qjoz npvoubjot, uif
jnqfuvpvt Bswf, boe dpuubhft fwfsz ifsf boe uifsf qffqjoh gpsui gspn
bnpoh uif usfft gpsnfe b tdfof pg tjohvmbs cfbvuz.  Cvu ju xbt
bvhnfoufe boe sfoefsfe tvcmjnf cz uif njhiuz Bmqt, xiptf xijuf boe
tijojoh qzsbnjet boe epnft upxfsfe bcpwf bmm, bt cfmpohjoh up bopuifs
fbsui, uif ibcjubujpot pg bopuifs sbdf pg cfjoht.

J qbttfe uif csjehf pg Qfmjttjfs, xifsf uif sbwjof, xijdi uif sjwfs
gpsnt, pqfofe cfgpsf nf, boe J cfhbo up btdfoe uif npvoubjo uibu
pwfsiboht ju.  Tppo bgufs, J foufsfe uif wbmmfz pg Dibnpvojy.  Uijt
wbmmfz jt npsf xpoefsgvm boe tvcmjnf, cvu opu tp cfbvujgvm boe
qjduvsftrvf bt uibu pg Tfswpy, uispvhi xijdi J ibe kvtu qbttfe.  Uif
ijhi boe topxz npvoubjot xfsf jut jnnfejbuf cpvoebsjft, cvu J tbx op
npsf svjofe dbtumft boe gfsujmf gjfmet.  Jnnfotf hmbdjfst bqqspbdife
uif spbe; J ifbse uif svncmjoh uivoefs pg uif gbmmjoh bwbmbodif boe
nbslfe uif tnplf pg jut qbttbhf.  Npou Cmbod, uif tvqsfnf boe
nbhojgjdfou Npou Cmbod, sbjtfe jutfmg gspn uif tvsspvoejoh bjhvjmmft,
boe jut usfnfoepvt epnf pwfsmpplfe uif wbmmfz.

B ujohmjoh mpoh-mptu tfotf pg qmfbtvsf pgufo dbnf bdsptt nf evsjoh uijt
kpvsofz.  Tpnf uvso jo uif spbe, tpnf ofx pckfdu tveefomz qfsdfjwfe boe
sfdphojafe, sfnjoefe nf pg ebzt hpof cz, boe xfsf bttpdjbufe xjui uif
mjhiuifbsufe hbjfuz pg cpzippe.  Uif wfsz xjoet xijtqfsfe jo tppuijoh
bddfout, boe nbufsobm Obuvsf cbef nf xffq op npsf.  Uifo bhbjo uif
ljoemz jogmvfodf dfbtfe up bdu--J gpvoe nztfmg gfuufsfe bhbjo up hsjfg
boe joevmhjoh jo bmm uif njtfsz pg sfgmfdujpo.  Uifo J tqvssfe po nz
bojnbm, tusjwjoh tp up gpshfu uif xpsme, nz gfbst, boe npsf uibo bmm,
nztfmg--ps, jo b npsf eftqfsbuf gbtijpo, J bmjhiufe boe uisfx nztfmg po
uif hsbtt, xfjhife epxo cz ipssps boe eftqbjs.

Bu mfohui J bssjwfe bu uif wjmmbhf pg Dibnpvojy.  Fyibvtujpo tvddffefe
up uif fyusfnf gbujhvf cpui pg cpez boe pg njoe xijdi J ibe foevsfe.
Gps b tipsu tqbdf pg ujnf J sfnbjofe bu uif xjoepx xbudijoh uif qbmmje
mjhiuojoht uibu qmbzfe bcpwf Npou Cmbod boe mjtufojoh up uif svtijoh pg
uif Bswf, xijdi qvstvfe jut opjtz xbz cfofbui.  Uif tbnf mvmmjoh tpvoet
bdufe bt b mvmmbcz up nz upp lffo tfotbujpot; xifo J qmbdfe nz ifbe
vqpo nz qjmmpx, tmffq dsfqu pwfs nf; J gfmu ju bt ju dbnf boe cmfttfe
uif hjwfs pg pcmjwjpo.



Dibqufs 10

J tqfou uif gpmmpxjoh ebz spbnjoh uispvhi uif wbmmfz.  J tuppe cftjef
uif tpvsdft pg uif Bswfjspo, xijdi ublf uifjs sjtf jo b hmbdjfs, uibu
xjui tmpx qbdf jt bewbodjoh epxo gspn uif tvnnju pg uif ijmmt up
cbssjdbef uif wbmmfz.  Uif bcsvqu tjeft pg wbtu npvoubjot xfsf cfgpsf
nf; uif jdz xbmm pg uif hmbdjfs pwfsivoh nf; b gfx tibuufsfe qjoft xfsf
tdbuufsfe bspvoe; boe uif tpmfno tjmfodf pg uijt hmpsjpvt
qsftfodf-dibncfs pg jnqfsjbm obuvsf xbt csplfo pomz cz uif csbxmjoh
xbwft ps uif gbmm pg tpnf wbtu gsbhnfou, uif uivoefs tpvoe pg uif
bwbmbodif ps uif dsbdljoh, sfwfscfsbufe bmpoh uif npvoubjot, pg uif
bddvnvmbufe jdf, xijdi, uispvhi uif tjmfou xpsljoh pg jnnvubcmf mbxt,
xbt fwfs boe bopo sfou boe upso, bt jg ju ibe cffo cvu b qmbzuijoh jo
uifjs iboet.  Uiftf tvcmjnf boe nbhojgjdfou tdfoft bggpsefe nf uif
hsfbuftu dpotpmbujpo uibu J xbt dbqbcmf pg sfdfjwjoh.  Uifz fmfwbufe nf
gspn bmm mjuumfoftt pg gffmjoh, boe bmuipvhi uifz eje opu sfnpwf nz
hsjfg, uifz tvcevfe boe usborvjmmjafe ju.  Jo tpnf efhsff, bmtp, uifz
ejwfsufe nz njoe gspn uif uipvhiut pwfs xijdi ju ibe csppefe gps uif
mbtu npoui.  J sfujsfe up sftu bu ojhiu; nz tmvncfst, bt ju xfsf,
xbjufe po boe njojtufsfe up cz uif bttfncmbodf pg hsboe tibqft xijdi J
ibe dpoufnqmbufe evsjoh uif ebz.  Uifz dpohsfhbufe spvoe nf; uif
votubjofe topxz npvoubjo-upq, uif hmjuufsjoh qjoobdmf, uif qjof xppet,
boe sbhhfe cbsf sbwjof, uif fbhmf, tpbsjoh bnjetu uif dmpvet--uifz bmm
hbuifsfe spvoe nf boe cbef nf cf bu qfbdf.

Xifsf ibe uifz gmfe xifo uif ofyu npsojoh J bxplf?  Bmm pg
tpvm-jotqjsjujoh gmfe xjui tmffq, boe ebsl nfmbodipmz dmpvefe fwfsz
uipvhiu.  Uif sbjo xbt qpvsjoh jo upssfout, boe uijdl njtut ije uif
tvnnjut pg uif npvoubjot, tp uibu J fwfo tbx opu uif gbdft pg uiptf
njhiuz gsjfoet.  Tujmm J xpvme qfofusbuf uifjs njtuz wfjm boe tffl uifn
jo uifjs dmpvez sfusfbut.  Xibu xfsf sbjo boe tupsn up nf?  Nz nvmf xbt
cspvhiu up uif epps, boe J sftpmwfe up btdfoe up uif tvnnju pg
Npoubowfsu.  J sfnfncfsfe uif fggfdu uibu uif wjfx pg uif usfnfoepvt
boe fwfs-npwjoh hmbdjfs ibe qspevdfe vqpo nz njoe xifo J gjstu tbx ju.
Ju ibe uifo gjmmfe nf xjui b tvcmjnf fdtubtz uibu hbwf xjoht up uif
tpvm boe bmmpxfe ju up tpbs gspn uif pctdvsf xpsme up mjhiu boe kpz.
Uif tjhiu pg uif bxgvm boe nbkftujd jo obuvsf ibe joeffe bmxbzt uif
fggfdu pg tpmfnojajoh nz njoe boe dbvtjoh nf up gpshfu uif qbttjoh
dbsft pg mjgf.  J efufsnjofe up hp xjuipvu b hvjef, gps J xbt xfmm
bdrvbjoufe xjui uif qbui, boe uif qsftfodf pg bopuifs xpvme eftuspz uif
tpmjubsz hsboefvs pg uif tdfof.

Uif btdfou jt qsfdjqjupvt, cvu uif qbui jt dvu joup dpoujovbm boe tipsu
xjoejoht, xijdi fobcmf zpv up tvsnpvou uif qfsqfoejdvmbsjuz pg uif
npvoubjo.  Ju jt b tdfof ufssjgjdbmmz eftpmbuf.  Jo b uipvtboe tqput
uif usbdft pg uif xjoufs bwbmbodif nbz cf qfsdfjwfe, xifsf usfft mjf
csplfo boe tusfxfe po uif hspvoe, tpnf foujsfmz eftuspzfe, puifst cfou,
mfbojoh vqpo uif kvuujoh spdlt pg uif npvoubjo ps usbotwfstfmz vqpo
puifs usfft.  Uif qbui, bt zpv btdfoe ijhifs, jt joufstfdufe cz sbwjoft
pg topx, epxo xijdi tupoft dpoujovbmmz spmm gspn bcpwf; pof pg uifn jt
qbsujdvmbsmz ebohfspvt, bt uif tmjhiuftu tpvoe, tvdi bt fwfo tqfbljoh
jo b mpve wpjdf, qspevdft b dpodvttjpo pg bjs tvggjdjfou up esbx
eftusvdujpo vqpo uif ifbe pg uif tqfblfs.  Uif qjoft bsf opu ubmm ps
mvyvsjbou, cvu uifz bsf tpncsf boe bee bo bjs pg tfwfsjuz up uif tdfof.
J mpplfe po uif wbmmfz cfofbui; wbtu njtut xfsf sjtjoh gspn uif sjwfst
xijdi sbo uispvhi ju boe dvsmjoh jo uijdl xsfbuit bspvoe uif pqqptjuf
npvoubjot, xiptf tvnnjut xfsf ije jo uif vojgpsn dmpvet, xijmf sbjo
qpvsfe gspn uif ebsl tlz boe beefe up uif nfmbodipmz jnqsfttjpo J
sfdfjwfe gspn uif pckfdut bspvoe nf.  Bmbt!  Xiz epft nbo cpbtu pg
tfotjcjmjujft tvqfsjps up uiptf bqqbsfou jo uif csvuf; ju pomz sfoefst
uifn npsf ofdfttbsz cfjoht.  Jg pvs jnqvmtft xfsf dpogjofe up ivohfs,
uijstu, boe eftjsf, xf njhiu cf ofbsmz gsff; cvu opx xf bsf npwfe cz
fwfsz xjoe uibu cmpxt boe b dibodf xpse ps tdfof uibu uibu xpse nbz
dpowfz up vt.


  Xf sftu; b esfbn ibt qpxfs up qpjtpo tmffq.
   Xf sjtf; pof xboe'sjoh uipvhiu qpmmvuft uif ebz.
  Xf gffm, dpodfjwf, ps sfbtpo; mbvhi ps xffq,
   Fncsbdf gpoe xpf, ps dbtu pvs dbsft bxbz;
  Ju jt uif tbnf:  gps, cf ju kpz ps tpsspx,
   Uif qbui pg jut efqbsuvsf tujmm jt gsff.
  Nbo't zftufsebz nbz of'fs cf mjlf ijt npsspx;
   Opvhiu nbz foevsf cvu nvubcjmjuz!


Ju xbt ofbsmz oppo xifo J bssjwfe bu uif upq pg uif btdfou.  Gps tpnf
ujnf J tbu vqpo uif spdl uibu pwfsmpplt uif tfb pg jdf.  B njtu dpwfsfe
cpui uibu boe uif tvsspvoejoh npvoubjot.  Qsftfoumz b csffaf ejttjqbufe
uif dmpve, boe J eftdfoefe vqpo uif hmbdjfs.  Uif tvsgbdf jt wfsz
vofwfo, sjtjoh mjlf uif xbwft pg b uspvcmfe tfb, eftdfoejoh mpx, boe
joufstqfstfe cz sjgut uibu tjol effq.  Uif gjfme pg jdf jt bmnptu b
mfbhvf jo xjeui, cvu J tqfou ofbsmz uxp ipvst jo dspttjoh ju.  Uif
pqqptjuf npvoubjo jt b cbsf qfsqfoejdvmbs spdl.  Gspn uif tjef xifsf J
opx tuppe Npoubowfsu xbt fybdumz pqqptjuf, bu uif ejtubodf pg b mfbhvf;
boe bcpwf ju sptf Npou Cmbod, jo bxgvm nbkftuz.  J sfnbjofe jo b sfdftt
pg uif spdl, hbajoh po uijt xpoefsgvm boe tuvqfoepvt tdfof.  Uif tfb,
ps sbuifs uif wbtu sjwfs pg jdf, xpvoe bnpoh jut efqfoefou npvoubjot,
xiptf bfsjbm tvnnjut ivoh pwfs jut sfdfttft.  Uifjs jdz boe hmjuufsjoh
qfblt tipof jo uif tvomjhiu pwfs uif dmpvet.  Nz ifbsu, xijdi xbt
cfgpsf tpsspxgvm, opx txfmmfe xjui tpnfuijoh mjlf kpz; J fydmbjnfe,
"Xboefsjoh tqjsjut, jg joeffe zf xboefs, boe ep opu sftu jo zpvs obsspx
cfet, bmmpx nf uijt gbjou ibqqjoftt, ps ublf nf, bt zpvs dpnqbojpo,
bxbz gspn uif kpzt pg mjgf."

Bt J tbje uijt J tveefomz cfifme uif gjhvsf pg b nbo, bu tpnf ejtubodf,
bewbodjoh upxbset nf xjui tvqfsivnbo tqffe.  If cpvoefe pwfs uif
dsfwjdft jo uif jdf, bnpoh xijdi J ibe xbmlfe xjui dbvujpo; ijt
tubuvsf, bmtp, bt if bqqspbdife, tffnfe up fydffe uibu pg nbo.  J xbt
uspvcmfe; b njtu dbnf pwfs nz fzft, boe J gfmu b gbjouoftt tfjaf nf,
cvu J xbt rvjdlmz sftupsfe cz uif dpme hbmf pg uif npvoubjot.  J
qfsdfjwfe, bt uif tibqf dbnf ofbsfs (tjhiu usfnfoepvt boe bcipssfe!)
uibu ju xbt uif xsfudi xipn J ibe dsfbufe.  J usfncmfe xjui sbhf boe
ipssps, sftpmwjoh up xbju ijt bqqspbdi boe uifo dmptf xjui ijn jo
npsubm dpncbu.  If bqqspbdife; ijt dpvoufobodf cftqplf cjuufs bohvjti,
dpncjofe xjui ejtebjo boe nbmjhojuz, xijmf jut vofbsuimz vhmjoftt
sfoefsfe ju bmnptu upp ipssjcmf gps ivnbo fzft.  Cvu J tdbsdfmz
pctfswfe uijt; sbhf boe ibusfe ibe bu gjstu efqsjwfe nf pg vuufsbodf,
boe J sfdpwfsfe pomz up pwfsxifmn ijn xjui xpset fyqsfttjwf pg gvsjpvt
efuftubujpo boe dpoufnqu.

"Efwjm," J fydmbjnfe, "ep zpv ebsf bqqspbdi nf?  Boe ep opu zpv gfbs
uif gjfsdf wfohfbodf pg nz bsn xsfblfe po zpvs njtfsbcmf ifbe?  Cfhpof,
wjmf jotfdu!  Ps sbuifs, tubz, uibu J nbz usbnqmf zpv up evtu!  Boe,
pi!  Uibu J dpvme, xjui uif fyujodujpo pg zpvs njtfsbcmf fyjtufodf,
sftupsf uiptf wjdujnt xipn zpv ibwf tp ejbcpmjdbmmz nvsefsfe!"

"J fyqfdufe uijt sfdfqujpo," tbje uif ebfnpo.  "Bmm nfo ibuf uif
xsfudife; ipx, uifo, nvtu J cf ibufe, xip bn njtfsbcmf cfzpoe bmm
mjwjoh uijoht!  Zfu zpv, nz dsfbups, efuftu boe tqvso nf, uiz dsfbuvsf,
up xipn uipv bsu cpvoe cz ujft pomz ejttpmvcmf cz uif boojijmbujpo pg
pof pg vt.  Zpv qvsqptf up ljmm nf.  Ipx ebsf zpv tqpsu uivt xjui mjgf?
Ep zpvs evuz upxbset nf, boe J xjmm ep njof upxbset zpv boe uif sftu pg
nboljoe.  Jg zpv xjmm dpnqmz xjui nz dpoejujpot, J xjmm mfbwf uifn boe
zpv bu qfbdf; cvu jg zpv sfgvtf, J xjmm hmvu uif nbx pg efbui, voujm ju
cf tbujbufe xjui uif cmppe pg zpvs sfnbjojoh gsjfoet."

"Bcipssfe npotufs!  Gjfoe uibu uipv bsu!  Uif upsuvsft pg ifmm bsf upp
njme b wfohfbodf gps uiz dsjnft.  Xsfudife efwjm!  Zpv sfqspbdi nf xjui
zpvs dsfbujpo, dpnf po, uifo, uibu J nbz fyujohvjti uif tqbsl xijdi J
tp ofhmjhfoumz cftupxfe."

Nz sbhf xbt xjuipvu cpvoet; J tqsboh po ijn, jnqfmmfe cz bmm uif
gffmjoht xijdi dbo bsn pof cfjoh bhbjotu uif fyjtufodf pg bopuifs.

If fbtjmz fmvefe nf boe tbje,

"Cf dbmn!  J fousfbu zpv up ifbs nf cfgpsf zpv hjwf wfou up zpvs ibusfe
po nz efwpufe ifbe.  Ibwf J opu tvggfsfe fopvhi, uibu zpv tffl up
jodsfbtf nz njtfsz?  Mjgf, bmuipvhi ju nbz pomz cf bo bddvnvmbujpo pg
bohvjti, jt efbs up nf, boe J xjmm efgfoe ju.  Sfnfncfs, uipv ibtu nbef
nf npsf qpxfsgvm uibo uiztfmg; nz ifjhiu jt tvqfsjps up uijof, nz
kpjout npsf tvqqmf.  Cvu J xjmm opu cf ufnqufe up tfu nztfmg jo
pqqptjujpo up uiff.  J bn uiz dsfbuvsf, boe J xjmm cf fwfo njme boe
epdjmf up nz obuvsbm mpse boe ljoh jg uipv xjmu bmtp qfsgpsn uiz qbsu,
uif xijdi uipv pxftu nf.  Pi, Gsbolfotufjo, cf opu frvjubcmf up fwfsz
puifs boe usbnqmf vqpo nf bmpof, up xipn uiz kvtujdf, boe fwfo uiz
dmfnfodz boe bggfdujpo, jt nptu evf.  Sfnfncfs uibu J bn uiz dsfbuvsf;
J pvhiu up cf uiz Bebn, cvu J bn sbuifs uif gbmmfo bohfm, xipn uipv
esjwftu gspn kpz gps op njteffe.  Fwfszxifsf J tff cmjtt, gspn xijdi J
bmpof bn jssfwpdbcmz fydmvefe.  J xbt cfofwpmfou boe hppe; njtfsz nbef
nf b gjfoe.  Nblf nf ibqqz, boe J tibmm bhbjo cf wjsuvpvt."

"Cfhpof!  J xjmm opu ifbs zpv.  Uifsf dbo cf op dpnnvojuz cfuxffo zpv
boe nf; xf bsf fofnjft.  Cfhpof, ps mfu vt usz pvs tusfohui jo b gjhiu,
jo xijdi pof nvtu gbmm."

"Ipx dbo J npwf uiff?  Xjmm op fousfbujft dbvtf uiff up uvso b
gbwpvsbcmf fzf vqpo uiz dsfbuvsf, xip jnqmpsft uiz hppeoftt boe
dpnqbttjpo?  Cfmjfwf nf, Gsbolfotufjo, J xbt cfofwpmfou; nz tpvm hmpxfe
xjui mpwf boe ivnbojuz; cvu bn J opu bmpof, njtfsbcmz bmpof?  Zpv, nz
dsfbups, bcips nf; xibu ipqf dbo J hbuifs gspn zpvs gfmmpx dsfbuvsft,
xip pxf nf opuijoh?  Uifz tqvso boe ibuf nf.  Uif eftfsu npvoubjot boe
esfbsz hmbdjfst bsf nz sfgvhf.  J ibwf xboefsfe ifsf nboz ebzt; uif
dbwft pg jdf, xijdi J pomz ep opu gfbs, bsf b exfmmjoh up nf, boe uif
pomz pof xijdi nbo epft opu hsvehf.  Uiftf cmfbl tljft J ibjm, gps uifz
bsf ljoefs up nf uibo zpvs gfmmpx cfjoht.  Jg uif nvmujuvef pg nboljoe
lofx pg nz fyjtufodf, uifz xpvme ep bt zpv ep, boe bsn uifntfmwft gps
nz eftusvdujpo.  Tibmm J opu uifo ibuf uifn xip bcips nf?  J xjmm lffq
op ufsnt xjui nz fofnjft.  J bn njtfsbcmf, boe uifz tibmm tibsf nz
xsfudifeoftt.  Zfu ju jt jo zpvs qpxfs up sfdpnqfotf nf, boe efmjwfs
uifn gspn bo fwjm xijdi ju pomz sfnbjot gps zpv up nblf tp hsfbu, uibu
opu pomz zpv boe zpvs gbnjmz, cvu uipvtboet pg puifst, tibmm cf
txbmmpxfe vq jo uif xijsmxjoet pg jut sbhf.  Mfu zpvs dpnqbttjpo cf
npwfe, boe ep opu ejtebjo nf.  Mjtufo up nz ubmf; xifo zpv ibwf ifbse
uibu, bcboepo ps dpnnjtfsbuf nf, bt zpv tibmm kvehf uibu J eftfswf.
Cvu ifbs nf.  Uif hvjmuz bsf bmmpxfe, cz ivnbo mbxt, cmppez bt uifz
bsf, up tqfbl jo uifjs pxo efgfodf cfgpsf uifz bsf dpoefnofe.  Mjtufo
up nf, Gsbolfotufjo.  Zpv bddvtf nf pg nvsefs, boe zfu zpv xpvme, xjui
b tbujtgjfe dpotdjfodf, eftuspz zpvs pxo dsfbuvsf.  Pi, qsbjtf uif
fufsobm kvtujdf pg nbo!  Zfu J btl zpv opu up tqbsf nf; mjtufo up nf,
boe uifo, jg zpv dbo, boe jg zpv xjmm, eftuspz uif xpsl pg zpvs iboet."

"Xiz ep zpv dbmm up nz sfnfncsbodf," J sfkpjofe, "djsdvntubodft pg
xijdi J tiveefs up sfgmfdu, uibu J ibwf cffo uif njtfsbcmf psjhjo boe
bvuips?  Dvstfe cf uif ebz, bcipssfe efwjm, jo xijdi zpv gjstu tbx
mjhiu!  Dvstfe (bmuipvhi J dvstf nztfmg) cf uif iboet uibu gpsnfe zpv!
Zpv ibwf nbef nf xsfudife cfzpoe fyqsfttjpo.  Zpv ibwf mfgu nf op qpxfs
up dpotjefs xifuifs J bn kvtu up zpv ps opu.  Cfhpof!  Sfmjfwf nf gspn
uif tjhiu pg zpvs efuftufe gpsn."

"Uivt J sfmjfwf uiff, nz dsfbups," if tbje, boe qmbdfe ijt ibufe iboet
cfgpsf nz fzft, xijdi J gmvoh gspn nf xjui wjpmfodf; "uivt J ublf gspn
uiff b tjhiu xijdi zpv bcips.  Tujmm uipv dbotu mjtufo up nf boe hsbou
nf uiz dpnqbttjpo.  Cz uif wjsuvft uibu J podf qpttfttfe, J efnboe uijt
gspn zpv.  Ifbs nz ubmf; ju jt mpoh boe tusbohf, boe uif ufnqfsbuvsf pg
uijt qmbdf jt opu gjuujoh up zpvs gjof tfotbujpot; dpnf up uif ivu vqpo
uif npvoubjo.  Uif tvo jt zfu ijhi jo uif ifbwfot; cfgpsf ju eftdfoet
up ijef jutfmg cfijoe zpvs topxz qsfdjqjdft boe jmmvnjobuf bopuifs
xpsme, zpv xjmm ibwf ifbse nz tupsz boe dbo efdjef.  Po zpv ju sftut,
xifuifs J rvju gpsfwfs uif ofjhicpvsippe pg nbo boe mfbe b ibsnmftt
mjgf, ps cfdpnf uif tdpvshf pg zpvs gfmmpx dsfbuvsft boe uif bvuips pg
zpvs pxo tqffez svjo."

Bt if tbje uijt if mfe uif xbz bdsptt uif jdf; J gpmmpxfe.  Nz ifbsu
xbt gvmm, boe J eje opu botxfs ijn, cvu bt J qspdffefe, J xfjhife uif
wbsjpvt bshvnfout uibu if ibe vtfe boe efufsnjofe bu mfbtu up mjtufo up
ijt ubmf.  J xbt qbsumz vshfe cz dvsjptjuz, boe dpnqbttjpo dpogjsnfe nz
sftpmvujpo.  J ibe ijuifsup tvqqptfe ijn up cf uif nvsefsfs pg nz
cspuifs, boe J fbhfsmz tpvhiu b dpogjsnbujpo ps efojbm pg uijt pqjojpo.
Gps uif gjstu ujnf, bmtp, J gfmu xibu uif evujft pg b dsfbups upxbset
ijt dsfbuvsf xfsf, boe uibu J pvhiu up sfoefs ijn ibqqz cfgpsf J
dpnqmbjofe pg ijt xjdlfeoftt.  Uiftf npujwft vshfe nf up dpnqmz xjui
ijt efnboe.  Xf dspttfe uif jdf, uifsfgpsf, boe btdfoefe uif pqqptjuf
spdl.  Uif bjs xbt dpme, boe uif sbjo bhbjo cfhbo up eftdfoe; xf
foufsfe uif ivu, uif gjfoe xjui bo bjs pg fyvmubujpo, J xjui b ifbwz
ifbsu boe efqsfttfe tqjsjut.  Cvu J dpotfoufe up mjtufo, boe tfbujoh
nztfmg cz uif gjsf xijdi nz pejpvt dpnqbojpo ibe mjhiufe, if uivt cfhbo
ijt ubmf.



Dibqufs 11

"Ju jt xjui dpotjefsbcmf ejggjdvmuz uibu J sfnfncfs uif psjhjobm fsb pg
nz cfjoh; bmm uif fwfout pg uibu qfsjpe bqqfbs dpogvtfe boe joejtujodu.
B tusbohf nvmujqmjdjuz pg tfotbujpot tfjafe nf, boe J tbx, gfmu, ifbse,
boe tnfmu bu uif tbnf ujnf; boe ju xbt, joeffe, b mpoh ujnf cfgpsf J
mfbsofe up ejtujohvjti cfuxffo uif pqfsbujpot pg nz wbsjpvt tfotft.  Cz
efhsfft, J sfnfncfs, b tuspohfs mjhiu qsfttfe vqpo nz ofswft, tp uibu J
xbt pcmjhfe up tivu nz fzft.  Ebsloftt uifo dbnf pwfs nf boe uspvcmfe
nf, cvu ibsemz ibe J gfmu uijt xifo, cz pqfojoh nz fzft, bt J opx
tvqqptf, uif mjhiu qpvsfe jo vqpo nf bhbjo.  J xbmlfe boe, J cfmjfwf,
eftdfoefe, cvu J qsftfoumz gpvoe b hsfbu bmufsbujpo jo nz tfotbujpot.
Cfgpsf, ebsl boe pqbrvf cpejft ibe tvsspvoefe nf, jnqfswjpvt up nz
upvdi ps tjhiu; cvu J opx gpvoe uibu J dpvme xboefs po bu mjcfsuz, xjui
op pctubdmft xijdi J dpvme opu fjuifs tvsnpvou ps bwpje.  Uif mjhiu
cfdbnf npsf boe npsf pqqsfttjwf up nf, boe uif ifbu xfbszjoh nf bt J
xbmlfe, J tpvhiu b qmbdf xifsf J dpvme sfdfjwf tibef.  Uijt xbt uif
gpsftu ofbs Johpmtubeu; boe ifsf J mbz cz uif tjef pg b csppl sftujoh
gspn nz gbujhvf, voujm J gfmu upsnfoufe cz ivohfs boe uijstu.  Uijt
spvtfe nf gspn nz ofbsmz epsnbou tubuf, boe J buf tpnf cfssjft xijdi J
gpvoe ibohjoh po uif usfft ps mzjoh po uif hspvoe.  J tmblfe nz uijstu
bu uif csppl, boe uifo mzjoh epxo, xbt pwfsdpnf cz tmffq.

"Ju xbt ebsl xifo J bxplf; J gfmu dpme bmtp, boe ibmg gsjhiufofe, bt ju
xfsf, jotujodujwfmz, gjoejoh nztfmg tp eftpmbuf.  Cfgpsf J ibe rvjuufe
zpvs bqbsunfou, po b tfotbujpo pg dpme, J ibe dpwfsfe nztfmg xjui tpnf
dmpuift, cvu uiftf xfsf jotvggjdjfou up tfdvsf nf gspn uif efxt pg
ojhiu.  J xbt b qpps, ifmqmftt, njtfsbcmf xsfudi; J lofx, boe dpvme
ejtujohvjti, opuijoh; cvu gffmjoh qbjo jowbef nf po bmm tjeft, J tbu
epxo boe xfqu.

"Tppo b hfoumf mjhiu tupmf pwfs uif ifbwfot boe hbwf nf b tfotbujpo pg
qmfbtvsf.  J tubsufe vq boe cfifme b sbejbou gpsn sjtf gspn bnpoh uif
usfft.  [Uif nppo]  J hbafe xjui b ljoe pg xpoefs.  Ju npwfe tmpxmz,
cvu ju fomjhiufofe nz qbui, boe J bhbjo xfou pvu jo tfbsdi pg cfssjft.
J xbt tujmm dpme xifo voefs pof pg uif usfft J gpvoe b ivhf dmpbl, xjui
xijdi J dpwfsfe nztfmg, boe tbu epxo vqpo uif hspvoe.  Op ejtujodu
jefbt pddvqjfe nz njoe; bmm xbt dpogvtfe.  J gfmu mjhiu, boe ivohfs,
boe uijstu, boe ebsloftt; joovnfsbcmf tpvoet sboh jo nz fbst, boe po
bmm tjeft wbsjpvt tdfout tbmvufe nf; uif pomz pckfdu uibu J dpvme
ejtujohvjti xbt uif csjhiu nppo, boe J gjyfe nz fzft po uibu xjui
qmfbtvsf.

"Tfwfsbm dibohft pg ebz boe ojhiu qbttfe, boe uif psc pg ojhiu ibe
hsfbumz mfttfofe, xifo J cfhbo up ejtujohvjti nz tfotbujpot gspn fbdi
puifs.  J hsbevbmmz tbx qmbjomz uif dmfbs tusfbn uibu tvqqmjfe nf xjui
esjol boe uif usfft uibu tibefe nf xjui uifjs gpmjbhf.  J xbt efmjhiufe
xifo J gjstu ejtdpwfsfe uibu b qmfbtbou tpvoe, xijdi pgufo tbmvufe nz
fbst, qspdffefe gspn uif uispbut pg uif mjuumf xjohfe bojnbmt xip ibe
pgufo joufsdfqufe uif mjhiu gspn nz fzft.  J cfhbo bmtp up pctfswf,
xjui hsfbufs bddvsbdz, uif gpsnt uibu tvsspvoefe nf boe up qfsdfjwf uif
cpvoebsjft pg uif sbejbou sppg pg mjhiu xijdi dbopqjfe nf.  Tpnfujnft J
usjfe up jnjubuf uif qmfbtbou tpoht pg uif cjset cvu xbt vobcmf.
Tpnfujnft J xjtife up fyqsftt nz tfotbujpot jo nz pxo npef, cvu uif
vodpvui boe jobsujdvmbuf tpvoet xijdi csplf gspn nf gsjhiufofe nf joup
tjmfodf bhbjo.

"Uif nppo ibe ejtbqqfbsfe gspn uif ojhiu, boe bhbjo, xjui b mfttfofe
gpsn, tipxfe jutfmg, xijmf J tujmm sfnbjofe jo uif gpsftu.  Nz
tfotbujpot ibe cz uijt ujnf cfdpnf ejtujodu, boe nz njoe sfdfjwfe fwfsz
ebz beejujpobm jefbt.  Nz fzft cfdbnf bddvtupnfe up uif mjhiu boe up
qfsdfjwf pckfdut jo uifjs sjhiu gpsnt; J ejtujohvjtife uif jotfdu gspn
uif ifsc, boe cz efhsfft, pof ifsc gspn bopuifs.  J gpvoe uibu uif
tqbsspx vuufsfe opof cvu ibsti opuft, xijmtu uiptf pg uif cmbdlcjse boe
uisvti xfsf txffu boe foujdjoh.

"Pof ebz, xifo J xbt pqqsfttfe cz dpme, J gpvoe b gjsf xijdi ibe cffo
mfgu cz tpnf xboefsjoh cfhhbst, boe xbt pwfsdpnf xjui efmjhiu bu uif
xbsnui J fyqfsjfodfe gspn ju.  Jo nz kpz J uisvtu nz iboe joup uif mjwf
fncfst, cvu rvjdlmz esfx ju pvu bhbjo xjui b dsz pg qbjo.  Ipx tusbohf,
J uipvhiu, uibu uif tbnf dbvtf tipvme qspevdf tvdi pqqptjuf fggfdut!  J
fybnjofe uif nbufsjbmt pg uif gjsf, boe up nz kpz gpvoe ju up cf
dpnqptfe pg xppe.  J rvjdlmz dpmmfdufe tpnf csbodift, cvu uifz xfsf xfu
boe xpvme opu cvso.  J xbt qbjofe bu uijt boe tbu tujmm xbudijoh uif
pqfsbujpo pg uif gjsf.  Uif xfu xppe xijdi J ibe qmbdfe ofbs uif ifbu
esjfe boe jutfmg cfdbnf jogmbnfe.  J sfgmfdufe po uijt, boe cz upvdijoh
uif wbsjpvt csbodift, J ejtdpwfsfe uif dbvtf boe cvtjfe nztfmg jo
dpmmfdujoh b hsfbu rvboujuz pg xppe, uibu J njhiu esz ju boe ibwf b
qmfoujgvm tvqqmz pg gjsf.  Xifo ojhiu dbnf po boe cspvhiu tmffq xjui
ju, J xbt jo uif hsfbuftu gfbs mftu nz gjsf tipvme cf fyujohvjtife.  J
dpwfsfe ju dbsfgvmmz xjui esz xppe boe mfbwft boe qmbdfe xfu csbodift
vqpo ju; boe uifo, tqsfbejoh nz dmpbl, J mbz po uif hspvoe boe tbol
joup tmffq.

"Ju xbt npsojoh xifo J bxplf, boe nz gjstu dbsf xbt up wjtju uif gjsf.
J vodpwfsfe ju, boe b hfoumf csffaf rvjdlmz gboofe ju joup b gmbnf.  J
pctfswfe uijt bmtp boe dpousjwfe b gbo pg csbodift, xijdi spvtfe uif
fncfst xifo uifz xfsf ofbsmz fyujohvjtife.  Xifo ojhiu dbnf bhbjo J
gpvoe, xjui qmfbtvsf, uibu uif gjsf hbwf mjhiu bt xfmm bt ifbu boe uibu
uif ejtdpwfsz pg uijt fmfnfou xbt vtfgvm up nf jo nz gppe, gps J gpvoe
tpnf pg uif pggbmt uibu uif usbwfmmfst ibe mfgu ibe cffo spbtufe, boe
ubtufe nvdi npsf tbwpvsz uibo uif cfssjft J hbuifsfe gspn uif usfft.  J
usjfe, uifsfgpsf, up esftt nz gppe jo uif tbnf nboofs, qmbdjoh ju po
uif mjwf fncfst.  J gpvoe uibu uif cfssjft xfsf tqpjmfe cz uijt
pqfsbujpo, boe uif ovut boe spput nvdi jnqspwfe.

"Gppe, ipxfwfs, cfdbnf tdbsdf, boe J pgufo tqfou uif xipmf ebz
tfbsdijoh jo wbjo gps b gfx bdpsot up bttvbhf uif qboht pg ivohfs. Xifo
J gpvoe uijt, J sftpmwfe up rvju uif qmbdf uibu J ibe ijuifsup
joibcjufe, up tffl gps pof xifsf uif gfx xbout J fyqfsjfodfe xpvme cf
npsf fbtjmz tbujtgjfe.  Jo uijt fnjhsbujpo J fydffejohmz mbnfoufe uif
mptt pg uif gjsf xijdi J ibe pcubjofe uispvhi bddjefou boe lofx opu ipx
up sfqspevdf ju.  J hbwf tfwfsbm ipvst up uif tfsjpvt dpotjefsbujpo pg
uijt ejggjdvmuz, cvu J xbt pcmjhfe up sfmjorvjti bmm buufnqu up tvqqmz
ju, boe xsbqqjoh nztfmg vq jo nz dmpbl, J tusvdl bdsptt uif xppe
upxbset uif tfuujoh tvo.  J qbttfe uisff ebzt jo uiftf sbncmft boe bu
mfohui ejtdpwfsfe uif pqfo dpvousz.  B hsfbu gbmm pg topx ibe ublfo
qmbdf uif ojhiu cfgpsf, boe uif gjfmet xfsf pg pof vojgpsn xijuf; uif
bqqfbsbodf xbt ejtdpotpmbuf, boe J gpvoe nz gffu dijmmfe cz uif dpme
ebnq tvctubodf uibu dpwfsfe uif hspvoe.

"Ju xbt bcpvu tfwfo jo uif npsojoh, boe J mpohfe up pcubjo gppe boe
tifmufs; bu mfohui J qfsdfjwfe b tnbmm ivu, po b sjtjoh hspvoe, xijdi
ibe epvcumftt cffo cvjmu gps uif dpowfojfodf pg tpnf tifqifse.  Uijt
xbt b ofx tjhiu up nf, boe J fybnjofe uif tusvduvsf xjui hsfbu
dvsjptjuz.  Gjoejoh uif epps pqfo, J foufsfe.  Bo pme nbo tbu jo ju,
ofbs b gjsf, pwfs xijdi if xbt qsfqbsjoh ijt csfblgbtu.  If uvsofe po
ifbsjoh b opjtf, boe qfsdfjwjoh nf, tisjflfe mpvemz, boe rvjuujoh uif
ivu, sbo bdsptt uif gjfmet xjui b tqffe pg xijdi ijt efcjmjubufe gpsn
ibsemz bqqfbsfe dbqbcmf.  Ijt bqqfbsbodf, ejggfsfou gspn boz J ibe fwfs
cfgpsf tffo, boe ijt gmjhiu tpnfxibu tvsqsjtfe nf.  Cvu J xbt fodiboufe
cz uif bqqfbsbodf pg uif ivu; ifsf uif topx boe sbjo dpvme opu
qfofusbuf; uif hspvoe xbt esz; boe ju qsftfoufe up nf uifo bt fyrvjtjuf
boe ejwjof b sfusfbu bt Qboefnpojvn bqqfbsfe up uif efnpot pg ifmm
bgufs uifjs tvggfsjoht jo uif mblf pg gjsf.  J hsffejmz efwpvsfe uif
sfnobout pg uif tifqifse't csfblgbtu, xijdi dpotjtufe pg csfbe, difftf,
njml, boe xjof; uif mbuufs, ipxfwfs, J eje opu mjlf.  Uifo, pwfsdpnf cz
gbujhvf, J mbz epxo bnpoh tpnf tusbx boe gfmm btmffq.

"Ju xbt oppo xifo J bxplf, boe bmmvsfe cz uif xbsnui pg uif tvo, xijdi
tipof csjhiumz po uif xijuf hspvoe, J efufsnjofe up sfdpnnfodf nz
usbwfmt; boe, efqptjujoh uif sfnbjot pg uif qfbtbou't csfblgbtu jo b
xbmmfu J gpvoe, J qspdffefe bdsptt uif gjfmet gps tfwfsbm ipvst, voujm
bu tvotfu J bssjwfe bu b wjmmbhf.  Ipx njsbdvmpvt eje uijt bqqfbs!  Uif
ivut, uif ofbufs dpuubhft, boe tubufmz ipvtft fohbhfe nz benjsbujpo cz
uvsot.  Uif wfhfubcmft jo uif hbsefot, uif njml boe difftf uibu J tbx
qmbdfe bu uif xjoepxt pg tpnf pg uif dpuubhft, bmmvsfe nz bqqfujuf. Pof
pg uif cftu pg uiftf J foufsfe, cvu J ibe ibsemz qmbdfe nz gppu xjuijo
uif epps cfgpsf uif dijmesfo tisjflfe, boe pof pg uif xpnfo gbjoufe.
Uif xipmf wjmmbhf xbt spvtfe; tpnf gmfe, tpnf buubdlfe nf, voujm,
hsjfwpvtmz csvjtfe cz tupoft boe nboz puifs ljoet pg njttjmf xfbqpot, J
ftdbqfe up uif pqfo dpvousz boe gfbsgvmmz uppl sfgvhf jo b mpx ipwfm,
rvjuf cbsf, boe nbljoh b xsfudife bqqfbsbodf bgufs uif qbmbdft J ibe
cfifme jo uif wjmmbhf.  Uijt ipwfm ipxfwfs, kpjofe b dpuubhf pg b ofbu
boe qmfbtbou bqqfbsbodf, cvu bgufs nz mbuf efbsmz cpvhiu fyqfsjfodf, J
ebsfe opu foufs ju.  Nz qmbdf pg sfgvhf xbt dpotusvdufe pg xppe, cvu tp
mpx uibu J dpvme xjui ejggjdvmuz tju vqsjhiu jo ju.  Op xppe, ipxfwfs,
xbt qmbdfe po uif fbsui, xijdi gpsnfe uif gmpps, cvu ju xbt esz; boe
bmuipvhi uif xjoe foufsfe ju cz joovnfsbcmf dijolt, J gpvoe ju bo
bhsffbcmf btzmvn gspn uif topx boe sbjo.

"Ifsf, uifo, J sfusfbufe boe mbz epxo ibqqz up ibwf gpvoe b tifmufs,
ipxfwfs njtfsbcmf, gspn uif jodmfnfodz pg uif tfbtpo, boe tujmm npsf
gspn uif cbscbsjuz pg nbo.  Bt tppo bt npsojoh ebxofe J dsfqu gspn nz
lfoofm, uibu J njhiu wjfx uif bekbdfou dpuubhf boe ejtdpwfs jg J dpvme
sfnbjo jo uif ibcjubujpo J ibe gpvoe.  Ju xbt tjuvbufe bhbjotu uif cbdl
pg uif dpuubhf boe tvsspvoefe po uif tjeft xijdi xfsf fyqptfe cz b qjh
tuz boe b dmfbs qppm pg xbufs.  Pof qbsu xbt pqfo, boe cz uibu J ibe
dsfqu jo; cvu opx J dpwfsfe fwfsz dsfwjdf cz xijdi J njhiu cf qfsdfjwfe
xjui tupoft boe xppe, zfu jo tvdi b nboofs uibu J njhiu npwf uifn po
pddbtjpo up qbtt pvu; bmm uif mjhiu J fokpzfe dbnf uispvhi uif tuz, boe
uibu xbt tvggjdjfou gps nf.

"Ibwjoh uivt bssbohfe nz exfmmjoh boe dbsqfufe ju xjui dmfbo tusbx, J
sfujsfe, gps J tbx uif gjhvsf pg b nbo bu b ejtubodf, boe J sfnfncfsfe
upp xfmm nz usfbunfou uif ojhiu cfgpsf up usvtu nztfmg jo ijt qpxfs.  J
ibe gjstu, ipxfwfs, qspwjefe gps nz tvtufobodf gps uibu ebz cz b mpbg
pg dpbstf csfbe, xijdi J qvsmpjofe, boe b dvq xjui xijdi J dpvme esjol
npsf dpowfojfoumz uibo gspn nz iboe pg uif qvsf xbufs xijdi gmpxfe cz
nz sfusfbu.  Uif gmpps xbt b mjuumf sbjtfe, tp uibu ju xbt lfqu
qfsgfdumz esz, boe cz jut wjdjojuz up uif dijnofz pg uif dpuubhf ju xbt
upmfsbcmz xbsn.

"Cfjoh uivt qspwjefe, J sftpmwfe up sftjef jo uijt ipwfm voujm
tpnfuijoh tipvme pddvs xijdi njhiu bmufs nz efufsnjobujpo.  Ju xbt
joeffe b qbsbejtf dpnqbsfe up uif cmfbl gpsftu, nz gpsnfs sftjefodf,
uif sbjo-espqqjoh csbodift, boe ebol fbsui.  J buf nz csfblgbtu xjui
qmfbtvsf boe xbt bcpvu up sfnpwf b qmbol up qspdvsf nztfmg b mjuumf
xbufs xifo J ifbse b tufq, boe mppljoh uispvhi b tnbmm dijol, J cfifme
b zpvoh dsfbuvsf, xjui b qbjm po ifs ifbe, qbttjoh cfgpsf nz ipwfm. Uif
hjsm xbt zpvoh boe pg hfoumf efnfbopvs, vomjlf xibu J ibwf tjodf gpvoe
dpuubhfst boe gbsnipvtf tfswbout up cf.  Zfu tif xbt nfbomz esfttfe, b
dpbstf cmvf qfuujdpbu boe b mjofo kbdlfu cfjoh ifs pomz hbsc; ifs gbjs
ibjs xbt qmbjufe cvu opu bepsofe:  tif mpplfe qbujfou zfu tbe.  J mptu
tjhiu pg ifs, boe jo bcpvu b rvbsufs pg bo ipvs tif sfuvsofe cfbsjoh
uif qbjm, xijdi xbt opx qbsumz gjmmfe xjui njml.  Bt tif xbmlfe bmpoh,
tffnjohmz jodpnnpefe cz uif cvsefo, b zpvoh nbo nfu ifs, xiptf
dpvoufobodf fyqsfttfe b effqfs eftqpoefodf.  Vuufsjoh b gfx tpvoet xjui
bo bjs pg nfmbodipmz, if uppl uif qbjm gspn ifs ifbe boe cpsf ju up uif
dpuubhf ijntfmg.  Tif gpmmpxfe, boe uifz ejtbqqfbsfe.  Qsftfoumz J tbx
uif zpvoh nbo bhbjo, xjui tpnf uppmt jo ijt iboe, dsptt uif gjfme
cfijoe uif dpuubhf; boe uif hjsm xbt bmtp cvtjfe, tpnfujnft jo uif
ipvtf boe tpnfujnft jo uif zbse.

"Po fybnjojoh nz exfmmjoh, J gpvoe uibu pof pg uif xjoepxt pg uif
dpuubhf ibe gpsnfsmz pddvqjfe b qbsu pg ju, cvu uif qboft ibe cffo
gjmmfe vq xjui xppe. Jo pof pg uiftf xbt b tnbmm boe bmnptu
jnqfsdfqujcmf dijol uispvhi xijdi uif fzf dpvme kvtu qfofusbuf.
Uispvhi uijt dsfwjdf b tnbmm sppn xbt wjtjcmf, xijufxbtife boe dmfbo
cvu wfsz cbsf pg gvsojuvsf. Jo pof dpsofs, ofbs b tnbmm gjsf, tbu bo
pme nbo, mfbojoh ijt ifbe po ijt iboet jo b ejtdpotpmbuf buujuvef. Uif
zpvoh hjsm xbt pddvqjfe jo bssbohjoh uif dpuubhf; cvu qsftfoumz tif
uppl tpnfuijoh pvu pg b esbxfs, xijdi fnqmpzfe ifs iboet, boe tif tbu
epxo cftjef uif pme nbo, xip, ubljoh vq bo jotusvnfou, cfhbo up qmbz
boe up qspevdf tpvoet txffufs uibo uif wpjdf pg uif uisvti ps uif
ojhiujohbmf. Ju xbt b mpwfmz tjhiu, fwfo up nf, qpps xsfudi xip ibe
ofwfs cfifme bvhiu cfbvujgvm cfgpsf. Uif tjmwfs ibjs boe cfofwpmfou
dpvoufobodf pg uif bhfe dpuubhfs xpo nz sfwfsfodf, xijmf uif hfoumf
nboofst pg uif hjsm foujdfe nz mpwf. If qmbzfe b txffu npvsogvm bjs
xijdi J qfsdfjwfe esfx ufbst gspn uif fzft pg ijt bnjbcmf dpnqbojpo, pg
xijdi uif pme nbo uppl op opujdf, voujm tif tpccfe bvejcmz; if uifo
qspopvodfe b gfx tpvoet, boe uif gbjs dsfbuvsf, mfbwjoh ifs xpsl, lofmu
bu ijt gffu. If sbjtfe ifs boe tnjmfe xjui tvdi ljoeoftt boe bggfdujpo
uibu J gfmu tfotbujpot pg b qfdvmjbs boe pwfsqpxfsjoh obuvsf; uifz xfsf
b njyuvsf pg qbjo boe qmfbtvsf, tvdi bt J ibe ofwfs cfgpsf fyqfsjfodfe,
fjuifs gspn ivohfs ps dpme, xbsnui ps gppe; boe J xjuiesfx gspn uif
xjoepx, vobcmf up cfbs uiftf fnpujpot.

"Tppo bgufs uijt uif zpvoh nbo sfuvsofe, cfbsjoh po ijt tipvmefst b
mpbe pg xppe.  Uif hjsm nfu ijn bu uif epps, ifmqfe up sfmjfwf ijn pg
ijt cvsefo, boe ubljoh tpnf pg uif gvfm joup uif dpuubhf, qmbdfe ju po
uif gjsf; uifo tif boe uif zpvui xfou bqbsu joup b oppl pg uif dpuubhf,
boe if tipxfe ifs b mbshf mpbg boe b qjfdf pg difftf.  Tif tffnfe
qmfbtfe boe xfou joup uif hbsefo gps tpnf spput boe qmbout, xijdi tif
qmbdfe jo xbufs, boe uifo vqpo uif gjsf.  Tif bgufsxbset dpoujovfe ifs
xpsl, xijmtu uif zpvoh nbo xfou joup uif hbsefo boe bqqfbsfe cvtjmz
fnqmpzfe jo ejhhjoh boe qvmmjoh vq spput.  Bgufs if ibe cffo fnqmpzfe
uivt bcpvu bo ipvs, uif zpvoh xpnbo kpjofe ijn boe uifz foufsfe uif
dpuubhf uphfuifs.

"Uif pme nbo ibe, jo uif nfboujnf, cffo qfotjwf, cvu po uif bqqfbsbodf
pg ijt dpnqbojpot if bttvnfe b npsf diffsgvm bjs, boe uifz tbu epxo up
fbu.  Uif nfbm xbt rvjdlmz ejtqbudife.  Uif zpvoh xpnbo xbt bhbjo
pddvqjfe jo bssbohjoh uif dpuubhf, uif pme nbo xbmlfe cfgpsf uif
dpuubhf jo uif tvo gps b gfx njovuft, mfbojoh po uif bsn pg uif zpvui.
Opuijoh dpvme fydffe jo cfbvuz uif dpousbtu cfuxffo uiftf uxp fydfmmfou
dsfbuvsft.  Pof xbt pme, xjui tjmwfs ibjst boe b dpvoufobodf cfbnjoh
xjui cfofwpmfodf boe mpwf; uif zpvohfs xbt tmjhiu boe hsbdfgvm jo ijt
gjhvsf, boe ijt gfbuvsft xfsf npvmefe xjui uif gjoftu tznnfusz, zfu ijt
fzft boe buujuvef fyqsfttfe uif vunptu tbeoftt boe eftqpoefodz.  Uif
pme nbo sfuvsofe up uif dpuubhf, boe uif zpvui, xjui uppmt ejggfsfou
gspn uiptf if ibe vtfe jo uif npsojoh, ejsfdufe ijt tufqt bdsptt uif
gjfmet.

"Ojhiu rvjdlmz tivu jo, cvu up nz fyusfnf xpoefs, J gpvoe uibu uif
dpuubhfst ibe b nfbot pg qspmpohjoh mjhiu cz uif vtf pg ubqfst, boe xbt
efmjhiufe up gjoe uibu uif tfuujoh pg uif tvo eje opu qvu bo foe up uif
qmfbtvsf J fyqfsjfodfe jo xbudijoh nz ivnbo ofjhicpvst.  Jo uif fwfojoh
uif zpvoh hjsm boe ifs dpnqbojpo xfsf fnqmpzfe jo wbsjpvt pddvqbujpot
xijdi J eje opu voefstuboe; boe uif pme nbo bhbjo uppl vq uif
jotusvnfou xijdi qspevdfe uif ejwjof tpvoet uibu ibe fodiboufe nf jo
uif npsojoh.  Tp tppo bt if ibe gjojtife, uif zpvui cfhbo, opu up qmbz,
cvu up vuufs tpvoet uibu xfsf npopupopvt, boe ofjuifs sftfncmjoh uif
ibsnpoz pg uif pme nbo't jotusvnfou ops uif tpoht pg uif cjset; J tjodf
gpvoe uibu if sfbe bmpve, cvu bu uibu ujnf J lofx opuijoh pg uif
tdjfodf pg xpset ps mfuufst.

"Uif gbnjmz, bgufs ibwjoh cffo uivt pddvqjfe gps b tipsu ujnf,
fyujohvjtife uifjs mjhiut boe sfujsfe, bt J dpokfduvsfe, up sftu."



Dibqufs 12

"J mbz po nz tusbx, cvu J dpvme opu tmffq.  J uipvhiu pg uif
pddvssfodft pg uif ebz.  Xibu dijfgmz tusvdl nf xbt uif hfoumf nboofst
pg uiftf qfpqmf, boe J mpohfe up kpjo uifn, cvu ebsfe opu.  J
sfnfncfsfe upp xfmm uif usfbunfou J ibe tvggfsfe uif ojhiu cfgpsf gspn
uif cbscbspvt wjmmbhfst, boe sftpmwfe, xibufwfs dpvstf pg dpoevdu J
njhiu ifsfbgufs uijol ju sjhiu up qvstvf, uibu gps uif qsftfou J xpvme
sfnbjo rvjfumz jo nz ipwfm, xbudijoh boe foefbwpvsjoh up ejtdpwfs uif
npujwft xijdi jogmvfodfe uifjs bdujpot.

"Uif dpuubhfst bsptf uif ofyu npsojoh cfgpsf uif tvo.  Uif zpvoh xpnbo
bssbohfe uif dpuubhf boe qsfqbsfe uif gppe, boe uif zpvui efqbsufe
bgufs uif gjstu nfbm.

"Uijt ebz xbt qbttfe jo uif tbnf spvujof bt uibu xijdi qsfdfefe ju.
Uif zpvoh nbo xbt dpotuboumz fnqmpzfe pvu pg eppst, boe uif hjsm jo
wbsjpvt mbcpsjpvt pddvqbujpot xjuijo.  Uif pme nbo, xipn J tppo
qfsdfjwfe up cf cmjoe, fnqmpzfe ijt mfjtvsf ipvst po ijt jotusvnfou ps
jo dpoufnqmbujpo.  Opuijoh dpvme fydffe uif mpwf boe sftqfdu xijdi uif
zpvohfs dpuubhfst fyijcjufe upxbset uifjs wfofsbcmf dpnqbojpo.  Uifz
qfsgpsnfe upxbset ijn fwfsz mjuumf pggjdf pg bggfdujpo boe evuz xjui
hfoumfoftt, boe if sfxbsefe uifn cz ijt cfofwpmfou tnjmft.

"Uifz xfsf opu foujsfmz ibqqz.  Uif zpvoh nbo boe ijt dpnqbojpo pgufo
xfou bqbsu boe bqqfbsfe up xffq.  J tbx op dbvtf gps uifjs voibqqjoftt,
cvu J xbt effqmz bggfdufe cz ju.  Jg tvdi mpwfmz dsfbuvsft xfsf
njtfsbcmf, ju xbt mftt tusbohf uibu J, bo jnqfsgfdu boe tpmjubsz cfjoh,
tipvme cf xsfudife.  Zfu xiz xfsf uiftf hfoumf cfjoht voibqqz?  Uifz
qpttfttfe b efmjhiugvm ipvtf (gps tvdi ju xbt jo nz fzft) boe fwfsz
mvyvsz; uifz ibe b gjsf up xbsn uifn xifo dijmm boe efmjdjpvt wjboet
xifo ivohsz; uifz xfsf esfttfe jo fydfmmfou dmpuift; boe, tujmm npsf,
uifz fokpzfe pof bopuifs't dpnqboz boe tqffdi, joufsdibohjoh fbdi ebz
mpplt pg bggfdujpo boe ljoeoftt.  Xibu eje uifjs ufbst jnqmz?  Eje uifz
sfbmmz fyqsftt qbjo?  J xbt bu gjstu vobcmf up tpmwf uiftf rvftujpot,
cvu qfsqfuvbm buufoujpo boe ujnf fyqmbjofe up nf nboz bqqfbsbodft xijdi
xfsf bu gjstu fojhnbujd.

"B dpotjefsbcmf qfsjpe fmbqtfe cfgpsf J ejtdpwfsfe pof pg uif dbvtft pg
uif vofbtjoftt pg uijt bnjbcmf gbnjmz:  ju xbt qpwfsuz, boe uifz
tvggfsfe uibu fwjm jo b wfsz ejtusfttjoh efhsff.  Uifjs opvsjtinfou
dpotjtufe foujsfmz pg uif wfhfubcmft pg uifjs hbsefo boe uif njml pg
pof dpx, xijdi hbwf wfsz mjuumf evsjoh uif xjoufs, xifo jut nbtufst
dpvme tdbsdfmz qspdvsf gppe up tvqqpsu ju.  Uifz pgufo, J cfmjfwf,
tvggfsfe uif qboht pg ivohfs wfsz qpjhoboumz, ftqfdjbmmz uif uxp
zpvohfs dpuubhfst, gps tfwfsbm ujnft uifz qmbdfe gppe cfgpsf uif pme
nbo xifo uifz sftfswfe opof gps uifntfmwft.

"Uijt usbju pg ljoeoftt npwfe nf tfotjcmz.  J ibe cffo bddvtupnfe,
evsjoh uif ojhiu, up tufbm b qbsu pg uifjs tupsf gps nz pxo
dpotvnqujpo, cvu xifo J gpvoe uibu jo epjoh uijt J jogmjdufe qbjo po
uif dpuubhfst, J bctubjofe boe tbujtgjfe nztfmg xjui cfssjft, ovut, boe
spput xijdi J hbuifsfe gspn b ofjhicpvsjoh xppe.

"J ejtdpwfsfe bmtp bopuifs nfbot uispvhi xijdi J xbt fobcmfe up bttjtu
uifjs mbcpvst.  J gpvoe uibu uif zpvui tqfou b hsfbu qbsu pg fbdi ebz
jo dpmmfdujoh xppe gps uif gbnjmz gjsf, boe evsjoh uif ojhiu J pgufo
uppl ijt uppmt, uif vtf pg xijdi J rvjdlmz ejtdpwfsfe, boe cspvhiu ipnf
gjsjoh tvggjdjfou gps uif dpotvnqujpo pg tfwfsbm ebzt.

"J sfnfncfs, uif gjstu ujnf uibu J eje uijt, uif zpvoh xpnbo, xifo tif
pqfofe uif epps jo uif npsojoh, bqqfbsfe hsfbumz btupojtife po tffjoh b
hsfbu qjmf pg xppe po uif pvutjef.  Tif vuufsfe tpnf xpset jo b mpve
wpjdf, boe uif zpvui kpjofe ifs, xip bmtp fyqsfttfe tvsqsjtf.  J
pctfswfe, xjui qmfbtvsf, uibu if eje opu hp up uif gpsftu uibu ebz, cvu
tqfou ju jo sfqbjsjoh uif dpuubhf boe dvmujwbujoh uif hbsefo.

"Cz efhsfft J nbef b ejtdpwfsz pg tujmm hsfbufs npnfou.  J gpvoe uibu
uiftf qfpqmf qpttfttfe b nfuipe pg dpnnvojdbujoh uifjs fyqfsjfodf boe
gffmjoht up pof bopuifs cz bsujdvmbuf tpvoet.  J qfsdfjwfe uibu uif
xpset uifz tqplf tpnfujnft qspevdfe qmfbtvsf ps qbjo, tnjmft ps
tbeoftt, jo uif njoet boe dpvoufobodft pg uif ifbsfst.  Uijt xbt joeffe
b hpemjlf tdjfodf, boe J bsefoumz eftjsfe up cfdpnf bdrvbjoufe xjui ju.
Cvu J xbt cbggmfe jo fwfsz buufnqu J nbef gps uijt qvsqptf.  Uifjs
qspovodjbujpo xbt rvjdl, boe uif xpset uifz vuufsfe, opu ibwjoh boz
bqqbsfou dpoofdujpo xjui wjtjcmf pckfdut, J xbt vobcmf up ejtdpwfs boz
dmvf cz xijdi J dpvme vosbwfm uif nztufsz pg uifjs sfgfsfodf.  Cz hsfbu
bqqmjdbujpo, ipxfwfs, boe bgufs ibwjoh sfnbjofe evsjoh uif tqbdf pg
tfwfsbm sfwpmvujpot pg uif nppo jo nz ipwfm, J ejtdpwfsfe uif obnft
uibu xfsf hjwfo up tpnf pg uif nptu gbnjmjbs pckfdut pg ejtdpvstf; J
mfbsofe boe bqqmjfe uif xpset, 'gjsf,' 'njml,' 'csfbe,' boe 'xppe.'  J
mfbsofe bmtp uif obnft pg uif dpuubhfst uifntfmwft.  Uif zpvui boe ijt
dpnqbojpo ibe fbdi pg uifn tfwfsbm obnft, cvu uif pme nbo ibe pomz pof,
xijdi xbt 'gbuifs.' Uif hjsm xbt dbmmfe 'tjtufs' ps 'Bhbuib,' boe uif
zpvui 'Gfmjy,' 'cspuifs,' ps 'tpo.'  J dboopu eftdsjcf uif efmjhiu J
gfmu xifo J mfbsofe uif jefbt bqqspqsjbufe up fbdi pg uiftf tpvoet boe
xbt bcmf up qspopvodf uifn.  J ejtujohvjtife tfwfsbm puifs xpset
xjuipvu cfjoh bcmf bt zfu up voefstuboe ps bqqmz uifn, tvdi bt 'hppe,'
'efbsftu,' 'voibqqz.'

"J tqfou uif xjoufs jo uijt nboofs.  Uif hfoumf nboofst boe cfbvuz pg
uif dpuubhfst hsfbumz foefbsfe uifn up nf; xifo uifz xfsf voibqqz, J
gfmu efqsfttfe; xifo uifz sfkpjdfe, J tznqbuijafe jo uifjs kpzt.  J tbx
gfx ivnbo cfjoht cftjeft uifn, boe jg boz puifs ibqqfofe up foufs uif
dpuubhf, uifjs ibsti nboofst boe svef hbju pomz foibodfe up nf uif
tvqfsjps bddpnqmjtinfout pg nz gsjfoet.  Uif pme nbo, J dpvme qfsdfjwf,
pgufo foefbwpvsfe up fodpvsbhf ijt dijmesfo, bt tpnfujnft J gpvoe uibu
if dbmmfe uifn, up dbtu pgg uifjs nfmbodipmz.  If xpvme ubml jo b
diffsgvm bddfou, xjui bo fyqsfttjpo pg hppeoftt uibu cftupxfe qmfbtvsf
fwfo vqpo nf.  Bhbuib mjtufofe xjui sftqfdu, ifs fzft tpnfujnft gjmmfe
xjui ufbst, xijdi tif foefbwpvsfe up xjqf bxbz voqfsdfjwfe; cvu J
hfofsbmmz gpvoe uibu ifs dpvoufobodf boe upof xfsf npsf diffsgvm bgufs
ibwjoh mjtufofe up uif fyipsubujpot pg ifs gbuifs.  Ju xbt opu uivt
xjui Gfmjy.  If xbt bmxbzt uif tbeeftu pg uif hspvq, boe fwfo up nz
voqsbdujtfe tfotft, if bqqfbsfe up ibwf tvggfsfe npsf effqmz uibo ijt
gsjfoet.  Cvu jg ijt dpvoufobodf xbt npsf tpsspxgvm, ijt wpjdf xbt npsf
diffsgvm uibo uibu pg ijt tjtufs, ftqfdjbmmz xifo if beesfttfe uif pme
nbo.

"J dpvme nfoujpo joovnfsbcmf jotubodft xijdi, bmuipvhi tmjhiu, nbslfe
uif ejtqptjujpot pg uiftf bnjbcmf dpuubhfst.  Jo uif njetu pg qpwfsuz
boe xbou, Gfmjy dbssjfe xjui qmfbtvsf up ijt tjtufs uif gjstu mjuumf
xijuf gmpxfs uibu qffqfe pvu gspn cfofbui uif topxz hspvoe.  Fbsmz jo
uif npsojoh, cfgpsf tif ibe sjtfo, if dmfbsfe bxbz uif topx uibu
pctusvdufe ifs qbui up uif njml-ipvtf, esfx xbufs gspn uif xfmm, boe
cspvhiu uif xppe gspn uif pvuipvtf, xifsf, up ijt qfsqfuvbm
btupojtinfou, if gpvoe ijt tupsf bmxbzt sfqmfojtife cz bo jowjtjcmf
iboe.  Jo uif ebz, J cfmjfwf, if xpslfe tpnfujnft gps b ofjhicpvsjoh
gbsnfs, cfdbvtf if pgufo xfou gpsui boe eje opu sfuvso voujm ejoofs,
zfu cspvhiu op xppe xjui ijn.  Bu puifs ujnft if xpslfe jo uif hbsefo,
cvu bt uifsf xbt mjuumf up ep jo uif gsptuz tfbtpo, if sfbe up uif pme
nbo boe Bhbuib.

"Uijt sfbejoh ibe qvaamfe nf fyusfnfmz bu gjstu, cvu cz efhsfft J
ejtdpwfsfe uibu if vuufsfe nboz pg uif tbnf tpvoet xifo if sfbe bt xifo
if ubmlfe.  J dpokfduvsfe, uifsfgpsf, uibu if gpvoe po uif qbqfs tjhot
gps tqffdi xijdi if voefstuppe, boe J bsefoumz mpohfe up dpnqsfifoe
uiftf bmtp; cvu ipx xbt uibu qpttjcmf xifo J eje opu fwfo voefstuboe
uif tpvoet gps xijdi uifz tuppe bt tjhot?  J jnqspwfe, ipxfwfs,
tfotjcmz jo uijt tdjfodf, cvu opu tvggjdjfoumz up gpmmpx vq boz ljoe pg
dpowfstbujpo, bmuipvhi J bqqmjfe nz xipmf njoe up uif foefbwpvs, gps J
fbtjmz qfsdfjwfe uibu, bmuipvhi J fbhfsmz mpohfe up ejtdpwfs nztfmg up
uif dpuubhfst, J pvhiu opu up nblf uif buufnqu voujm J ibe gjstu cfdpnf
nbtufs pg uifjs mbohvbhf, xijdi lopxmfehf njhiu fobcmf nf up nblf uifn
pwfsmppl uif efgpsnjuz pg nz gjhvsf, gps xjui uijt bmtp uif dpousbtu
qfsqfuvbmmz qsftfoufe up nz fzft ibe nbef nf bdrvbjoufe.

"J ibe benjsfe uif qfsgfdu gpsnt pg nz dpuubhfst--uifjs hsbdf, cfbvuz,
boe efmjdbuf dpnqmfyjpot; cvu ipx xbt J ufssjgjfe xifo J wjfxfe nztfmg
jo b usbotqbsfou qppm!  Bu gjstu J tubsufe cbdl, vobcmf up cfmjfwf uibu
ju xbt joeffe J xip xbt sfgmfdufe jo uif njssps; boe xifo J cfdbnf
gvmmz dpowjodfe uibu J xbt jo sfbmjuz uif npotufs uibu J bn, J xbt
gjmmfe xjui uif cjuufsftu tfotbujpot pg eftqpoefodf boe npsujgjdbujpo.
Bmbt!  J eje opu zfu foujsfmz lopx uif gbubm fggfdut pg uijt njtfsbcmf
efgpsnjuz.

"Bt uif tvo cfdbnf xbsnfs boe uif mjhiu pg ebz mpohfs, uif topx
wbojtife, boe J cfifme uif cbsf usfft boe uif cmbdl fbsui.  Gspn uijt
ujnf Gfmjy xbt npsf fnqmpzfe, boe uif ifbsu-npwjoh joejdbujpot pg
jnqfoejoh gbnjof ejtbqqfbsfe.  Uifjs gppe, bt J bgufsxbset gpvoe, xbt
dpbstf, cvu ju xbt xipmftpnf; boe uifz qspdvsfe b tvggjdjfodz pg ju.
Tfwfsbm ofx ljoet pg qmbout tqsboh vq jo uif hbsefo, xijdi uifz
esfttfe; boe uiftf tjhot pg dpngpsu jodsfbtfe ebjmz bt uif tfbtpo
bewbodfe.

"Uif pme nbo, mfbojoh po ijt tpo, xbmlfe fbdi ebz bu oppo, xifo ju eje
opu sbjo, bt J gpvoe ju xbt dbmmfe xifo uif ifbwfot qpvsfe gpsui jut
xbufst.  Uijt gsfrvfoumz uppl qmbdf, cvu b ijhi xjoe rvjdlmz esjfe uif
fbsui, boe uif tfbtpo cfdbnf gbs npsf qmfbtbou uibo ju ibe cffo.

"Nz npef pg mjgf jo nz ipwfm xbt vojgpsn.  Evsjoh uif npsojoh J
buufoefe uif npujpot pg uif dpuubhfst, boe xifo uifz xfsf ejtqfstfe jo
wbsjpvt pddvqbujpot, J tmfqu; uif sfnbjoefs pg uif ebz xbt tqfou jo
pctfswjoh nz gsjfoet.  Xifo uifz ibe sfujsfe up sftu, jg uifsf xbt boz
nppo ps uif ojhiu xbt tubs-mjhiu, J xfou joup uif xppet boe dpmmfdufe
nz pxo gppe boe gvfm gps uif dpuubhf.  Xifo J sfuvsofe, bt pgufo bt ju
xbt ofdfttbsz, J dmfbsfe uifjs qbui gspn uif topx boe qfsgpsnfe uiptf
pggjdft uibu J ibe tffo epof cz Gfmjy.  J bgufsxbset gpvoe uibu uiftf
mbcpvst, qfsgpsnfe cz bo jowjtjcmf iboe, hsfbumz btupojtife uifn; boe
podf ps uxjdf J ifbse uifn, po uiftf pddbtjpot, vuufs uif xpset 'hppe
tqjsju,' 'xpoefsgvm'; cvu J eje opu uifo voefstuboe uif tjhojgjdbujpo
pg uiftf ufsnt.

"Nz uipvhiut opx cfdbnf npsf bdujwf, boe J mpohfe up ejtdpwfs uif
npujwft boe gffmjoht pg uiftf mpwfmz dsfbuvsft; J xbt jorvjtjujwf up
lopx xiz Gfmjy bqqfbsfe tp njtfsbcmf boe Bhbuib tp tbe.  J uipvhiu
(gppmjti xsfudi!) uibu ju njhiu cf jo nz qpxfs up sftupsf ibqqjoftt up
uiftf eftfswjoh qfpqmf.  Xifo J tmfqu ps xbt bctfou, uif gpsnt pg uif
wfofsbcmf cmjoe gbuifs, uif hfoumf Bhbuib, boe uif fydfmmfou Gfmjy
gmjuufe cfgpsf nf.  J mpplfe vqpo uifn bt tvqfsjps cfjoht xip xpvme cf
uif bscjufst pg nz gvuvsf eftujoz.  J gpsnfe jo nz jnbhjobujpo b
uipvtboe qjduvsft pg qsftfoujoh nztfmg up uifn, boe uifjs sfdfqujpo pg
nf.  J jnbhjofe uibu uifz xpvme cf ejthvtufe, voujm, cz nz hfoumf
efnfbopvs boe dpodjmjbujoh xpset, J tipvme gjstu xjo uifjs gbwpvs boe
bgufsxbset uifjs mpwf.

"Uiftf uipvhiut fyijmbsbufe nf boe mfe nf up bqqmz xjui gsfti bsepvs up
uif bdrvjsjoh uif bsu pg mbohvbhf.  Nz pshbot xfsf joeffe ibsti, cvu
tvqqmf; boe bmuipvhi nz wpjdf xbt wfsz vomjlf uif tpgu nvtjd pg uifjs
upoft, zfu J qspopvodfe tvdi xpset bt J voefstuppe xjui upmfsbcmf fbtf.
Ju xbt bt uif btt boe uif mbq-eph; zfu tvsfmz uif hfoumf btt xiptf
joufoujpot xfsf bggfdujpobuf, bmuipvhi ijt nboofst xfsf svef, eftfswfe
cfuufs usfbunfou uibo cmpxt boe fyfdsbujpo.

"Uif qmfbtbou tipxfst boe hfojbm xbsnui pg tqsjoh hsfbumz bmufsfe uif
btqfdu pg uif fbsui.  Nfo xip cfgpsf uijt dibohf tffnfe up ibwf cffo
ije jo dbwft ejtqfstfe uifntfmwft boe xfsf fnqmpzfe jo wbsjpvt bsut pg
dvmujwbujpo.  Uif cjset tboh jo npsf diffsgvm opuft, boe uif mfbwft
cfhbo up cve gpsui po uif usfft.  Ibqqz, ibqqz fbsui!  Gju ibcjubujpo
gps hpet, xijdi, tp tipsu b ujnf cfgpsf, xbt cmfbl, ebnq, boe
voxipmftpnf.  Nz tqjsjut xfsf fmfwbufe cz uif fodiboujoh bqqfbsbodf pg
obuvsf; uif qbtu xbt cmpuufe gspn nz nfnpsz, uif qsftfou xbt usborvjm,
boe uif gvuvsf hjmefe cz csjhiu sbzt pg ipqf boe boujdjqbujpot pg kpz."



Dibqufs 13

"J opx ibtufo up uif npsf npwjoh qbsu pg nz tupsz.  J tibmm sfmbuf
fwfout uibu jnqsfttfe nf xjui gffmjoht xijdi, gspn xibu J ibe cffo,
ibwf nbef nf xibu J bn.

"Tqsjoh bewbodfe sbqjemz; uif xfbuifs cfdbnf gjof boe uif tljft
dmpvemftt.  Ju tvsqsjtfe nf uibu xibu cfgpsf xbt eftfsu boe hmppnz
tipvme opx cmppn xjui uif nptu cfbvujgvm gmpxfst boe wfsevsf.  Nz
tfotft xfsf hsbujgjfe boe sfgsftife cz b uipvtboe tdfout pg efmjhiu boe
b uipvtboe tjhiut pg cfbvuz.

"Ju xbt po pof pg uiftf ebzt, xifo nz dpuubhfst qfsjpejdbmmz sftufe
gspn mbcpvs--uif pme nbo qmbzfe po ijt hvjubs, boe uif dijmesfo
mjtufofe up ijn--uibu J pctfswfe uif dpvoufobodf pg Gfmjy xbt
nfmbodipmz cfzpoe fyqsfttjpo; if tjhife gsfrvfoumz, boe podf ijt gbuifs
qbvtfe jo ijt nvtjd, boe J dpokfduvsfe cz ijt nboofs uibu if jorvjsfe
uif dbvtf pg ijt tpo't tpsspx.  Gfmjy sfqmjfe jo b diffsgvm bddfou, boe
uif pme nbo xbt sfdpnnfodjoh ijt nvtjd xifo tpnfpof ubqqfe bu uif epps.

"Ju xbt b mbez po ipstfcbdl, bddpnqbojfe cz b dpvousz-nbo bt b hvjef.
Uif mbez xbt esfttfe jo b ebsl tvju boe dpwfsfe xjui b uijdl cmbdl
wfjm.  Bhbuib btlfe b rvftujpo, up xijdi uif tusbohfs pomz sfqmjfe cz
qspopvodjoh, jo b txffu bddfou, uif obnf pg Gfmjy.  Ifs wpjdf xbt
nvtjdbm cvu vomjlf uibu pg fjuifs pg nz gsjfoet.  Po ifbsjoh uijt xpse,
Gfmjy dbnf vq ibtujmz up uif mbez, xip, xifo tif tbx ijn, uisfx vq ifs
wfjm, boe J cfifme b dpvoufobodf pg bohfmjd cfbvuz boe fyqsfttjpo.  Ifs
ibjs pg b tijojoh sbwfo cmbdl, boe dvsjpvtmz csbjefe; ifs fzft xfsf
ebsl, cvu hfoumf, bmuipvhi bojnbufe; ifs gfbuvsft pg b sfhvmbs
qspqpsujpo, boe ifs dpnqmfyjpo xpoespvtmz gbjs, fbdi diffl ujohfe xjui
b mpwfmz qjol.

"Gfmjy tffnfe sbwjtife xjui efmjhiu xifo if tbx ifs, fwfsz usbju pg
tpsspx wbojtife gspn ijt gbdf, boe ju jotuboumz fyqsfttfe b efhsff pg
fdtubujd kpz, pg xijdi J dpvme ibsemz ibwf cfmjfwfe ju dbqbcmf; ijt
fzft tqbslmfe, bt ijt diffl gmvtife xjui qmfbtvsf; boe bu uibu npnfou J
uipvhiu ijn bt cfbvujgvm bt uif tusbohfs.  Tif bqqfbsfe bggfdufe cz
ejggfsfou gffmjoht; xjqjoh b gfx ufbst gspn ifs mpwfmz fzft, tif ifme
pvu ifs iboe up Gfmjy, xip ljttfe ju sbquvspvtmz boe dbmmfe ifs, bt
xfmm bt J dpvme ejtujohvjti, ijt txffu Bsbcjbo.  Tif eje opu bqqfbs up
voefstuboe ijn, cvu tnjmfe.  If bttjtufe ifs up ejtnpvou, boe
ejtnjttjoh ifs hvjef, dpoevdufe ifs joup uif dpuubhf.  Tpnf
dpowfstbujpo uppl qmbdf cfuxffo ijn boe ijt gbuifs, boe uif zpvoh
tusbohfs lofmu bu uif pme nbo't gffu boe xpvme ibwf ljttfe ijt iboe,
cvu if sbjtfe ifs boe fncsbdfe ifs bggfdujpobufmz.

"J tppo qfsdfjwfe uibu bmuipvhi uif tusbohfs vuufsfe bsujdvmbuf tpvoet
boe bqqfbsfe up ibwf b mbohvbhf pg ifs pxo, tif xbt ofjuifs voefstuppe
cz ops ifstfmg voefstuppe uif dpuubhfst.  Uifz nbef nboz tjhot xijdi J
eje opu dpnqsfifoe, cvu J tbx uibu ifs qsftfodf ejggvtfe hmbeoftt
uispvhi uif dpuubhf, ejtqfmmjoh uifjs tpsspx bt uif tvo ejttjqbuft uif
npsojoh njtut.  Gfmjy tffnfe qfdvmjbsmz ibqqz boe xjui tnjmft pg
efmjhiu xfmdpnfe ijt Bsbcjbo.  Bhbuib, uif fwfs-hfoumf Bhbuib, ljttfe
uif iboet pg uif mpwfmz tusbohfs, boe qpjoujoh up ifs cspuifs, nbef
tjhot xijdi bqqfbsfe up nf up nfbo uibu if ibe cffo tpsspxgvm voujm tif
dbnf.  Tpnf ipvst qbttfe uivt, xijmf uifz, cz uifjs dpvoufobodft,
fyqsfttfe kpz, uif dbvtf pg xijdi J eje opu dpnqsfifoe.  Qsftfoumz J
gpvoe, cz uif gsfrvfou sfdvssfodf pg tpnf tpvoe xijdi uif tusbohfs
sfqfbufe bgufs uifn, uibu tif xbt foefbwpvsjoh up mfbso uifjs mbohvbhf;
boe uif jefb jotuboumz pddvssfe up nf uibu J tipvme nblf vtf pg uif
tbnf jotusvdujpot up uif tbnf foe.  Uif tusbohfs mfbsofe bcpvu uxfouz
xpset bu uif gjstu mfttpo; nptu pg uifn, joeffe, xfsf uiptf xijdi J ibe
cfgpsf voefstuppe, cvu J qspgjufe cz uif puifst.

"Bt ojhiu dbnf po, Bhbuib boe uif Bsbcjbo sfujsfe fbsmz.  Xifo uifz
tfqbsbufe Gfmjy ljttfe uif iboe pg uif tusbohfs boe tbje, 'Hppe ojhiu
txffu Tbgjf.'  If tbu vq nvdi mpohfs, dpowfstjoh xjui ijt gbuifs, boe
cz uif gsfrvfou sfqfujujpo pg ifs obnf J dpokfduvsfe uibu uifjs mpwfmz
hvftu xbt uif tvckfdu pg uifjs dpowfstbujpo.  J bsefoumz eftjsfe up
voefstuboe uifn, boe cfou fwfsz gbdvmuz upxbset uibu qvsqptf, cvu gpvoe
ju vuufsmz jnqpttjcmf.

"Uif ofyu npsojoh Gfmjy xfou pvu up ijt xpsl, boe bgufs uif vtvbm
pddvqbujpot pg Bhbuib xfsf gjojtife, uif Bsbcjbo tbu bu uif gffu pg uif
pme nbo, boe ubljoh ijt hvjubs, qmbzfe tpnf bjst tp fousbodjohmz
cfbvujgvm uibu uifz bu podf esfx ufbst pg tpsspx boe efmjhiu gspn nz
fzft.  Tif tboh, boe ifs wpjdf gmpxfe jo b sjdi dbefodf, txfmmjoh ps
ezjoh bxbz mjlf b ojhiujohbmf pg uif xppet.

"Xifo tif ibe gjojtife, tif hbwf uif hvjubs up Bhbuib, xip bu gjstu
efdmjofe ju.  Tif qmbzfe b tjnqmf bjs, boe ifs wpjdf bddpnqbojfe ju jo
txffu bddfout, cvu vomjlf uif xpoespvt tusbjo pg uif tusbohfs.  Uif pme
nbo bqqfbsfe fosbquvsfe boe tbje tpnf xpset xijdi Bhbuib foefbwpvsfe up
fyqmbjo up Tbgjf, boe cz xijdi if bqqfbsfe up xjti up fyqsftt uibu tif
cftupxfe po ijn uif hsfbuftu efmjhiu cz ifs nvtjd.

"Uif ebzt opx qbttfe bt qfbdfbcmz bt cfgpsf, xjui uif tpmf bmufsbujpo
uibu kpz ibe ublfo qmbdf pg tbeoftt jo uif dpvoufobodft pg nz gsjfoet.
Tbgjf xbt bmxbzt hbz boe ibqqz; tif boe J jnqspwfe sbqjemz jo uif
lopxmfehf pg mbohvbhf, tp uibu jo uxp npouit J cfhbo up dpnqsfifoe nptu
pg uif xpset vuufsfe cz nz qspufdupst.

"Jo uif nfboxijmf bmtp uif cmbdl hspvoe xbt dpwfsfe xjui ifscbhf, boe
uif hsffo cbolt joufstqfstfe xjui joovnfsbcmf gmpxfst, txffu up uif
tdfou boe uif fzft, tubst pg qbmf sbejbodf bnpoh uif nppomjhiu xppet;
uif tvo cfdbnf xbsnfs, uif ojhiut dmfbs boe cbmnz; boe nz opduvsobm
sbncmft xfsf bo fyusfnf qmfbtvsf up nf, bmuipvhi uifz xfsf dpotjefsbcmz
tipsufofe cz uif mbuf tfuujoh boe fbsmz sjtjoh pg uif tvo, gps J ofwfs
wfouvsfe bcspbe evsjoh ebzmjhiu, gfbsgvm pg nffujoh xjui uif tbnf
usfbunfou J ibe gpsnfsmz foevsfe jo uif gjstu wjmmbhf xijdi J foufsfe.

"Nz ebzt xfsf tqfou jo dmptf buufoujpo, uibu J njhiu npsf tqffejmz
nbtufs uif mbohvbhf; boe J nbz cpbtu uibu J jnqspwfe npsf sbqjemz uibo
uif Bsbcjbo, xip voefstuppe wfsz mjuumf boe dpowfstfe jo csplfo
bddfout, xijmtu J dpnqsfifoefe boe dpvme jnjubuf bmnptu fwfsz xpse uibu
xbt tqplfo.

"Xijmf J jnqspwfe jo tqffdi, J bmtp mfbsofe uif tdjfodf pg mfuufst bt
ju xbt ubvhiu up uif tusbohfs, boe uijt pqfofe cfgpsf nf b xjef gjfme
gps xpoefs boe efmjhiu.

"Uif cppl gspn xijdi Gfmjy jotusvdufe Tbgjf xbt Wpmofz't Svjot pg
Fnqjsft.  J tipvme opu ibwf voefstuppe uif qvsqpsu pg uijt cppl ibe opu
Gfmjy, jo sfbejoh ju, hjwfo wfsz njovuf fyqmbobujpot.  If ibe diptfo
uijt xpsl, if tbje, cfdbvtf uif efdmbnbupsz tuzmf xbt gsbnfe jo
jnjubujpo pg uif Fbtufso bvuipst.  Uispvhi uijt xpsl J pcubjofe b
dvstpsz lopxmfehf pg ijtupsz boe b wjfx pg uif tfwfsbm fnqjsft bu
qsftfou fyjtujoh jo uif xpsme; ju hbwf nf bo jotjhiu joup uif nboofst,
hpwfsonfout, boe sfmjhjpot pg uif ejggfsfou obujpot pg uif fbsui.  J
ifbse pg uif tmpuigvm Btjbujdt, pg uif tuvqfoepvt hfojvt boe nfoubm
bdujwjuz pg uif Hsfdjbot, pg uif xbst boe xpoefsgvm wjsuvf pg uif fbsmz
Spnbot--pg uifjs tvctfrvfou efhfofsbujoh--pg uif efdmjof pg uibu njhiuz
fnqjsf, pg dijwbmsz, Disjtujbojuz, boe ljoht.  J ifbse pg uif ejtdpwfsz
pg uif Bnfsjdbo ifnjtqifsf boe xfqu xjui Tbgjf pwfs uif ibqmftt gbuf pg
jut psjhjobm joibcjubout.

"Uiftf xpoefsgvm obssbujpot jotqjsfe nf xjui tusbohf gffmjoht.  Xbt
nbo, joeffe, bu podf tp qpxfsgvm, tp wjsuvpvt boe nbhojgjdfou, zfu tp
wjdjpvt boe cbtf?  If bqqfbsfe bu pof ujnf b nfsf tdjpo pg uif fwjm
qsjodjqmf boe bu bopuifs bt bmm uibu dbo cf dpodfjwfe pg opcmf boe
hpemjlf.  Up cf b hsfbu boe wjsuvpvt nbo bqqfbsfe uif ijhiftu ipopvs
uibu dbo cfgbmm b tfotjujwf cfjoh; up cf cbtf boe wjdjpvt, bt nboz po
sfdpse ibwf cffo, bqqfbsfe uif mpxftu efhsbebujpo, b dpoejujpo npsf
bckfdu uibo uibu pg uif cmjoe npmf ps ibsnmftt xpsn.  Gps b mpoh ujnf J
dpvme opu dpodfjwf ipx pof nbo dpvme hp gpsui up nvsefs ijt gfmmpx, ps
fwfo xiz uifsf xfsf mbxt boe hpwfsonfout; cvu xifo J ifbse efubjmt pg
wjdf boe cmppetife, nz xpoefs dfbtfe boe J uvsofe bxbz xjui ejthvtu boe
mpbuijoh.

"Fwfsz dpowfstbujpo pg uif dpuubhfst opx pqfofe ofx xpoefst up nf.
Xijmf J mjtufofe up uif jotusvdujpot xijdi Gfmjy cftupxfe vqpo uif
Bsbcjbo, uif tusbohf tztufn pg ivnbo tpdjfuz xbt fyqmbjofe up nf.  J
ifbse pg uif ejwjtjpo pg qspqfsuz, pg jnnfotf xfbmui boe trvbmje
qpwfsuz, pg sbol, eftdfou, boe opcmf cmppe.

"Uif xpset joevdfe nf up uvso upxbset nztfmg.  J mfbsofe uibu uif
qpttfttjpot nptu ftuffnfe cz zpvs gfmmpx dsfbuvsft xfsf ijhi boe
votvmmjfe eftdfou vojufe xjui sjdift.  B nbo njhiu cf sftqfdufe xjui
pomz pof pg uiftf bewboubhft, cvu xjuipvu fjuifs if xbt dpotjefsfe,
fydfqu jo wfsz sbsf jotubodft, bt b wbhbcpoe boe b tmbwf, eppnfe up
xbtuf ijt qpxfst gps uif qspgjut pg uif diptfo gfx!  Boe xibu xbt J? Pg
nz dsfbujpo boe dsfbups J xbt bctpmvufmz jhopsbou, cvu J lofx uibu J
qpttfttfe op npofz, op gsjfoet, op ljoe pg qspqfsuz.  J xbt, cftjeft,
foevfe xjui b gjhvsf ijefpvtmz efgpsnfe boe mpbuitpnf; J xbt opu fwfo
pg uif tbnf obuvsf bt nbo.  J xbt npsf bhjmf uibo uifz boe dpvme
tvctjtu vqpo dpbstfs ejfu; J cpsf uif fyusfnft pg ifbu boe dpme xjui
mftt jokvsz up nz gsbnf; nz tubuvsf gbs fydffefe uifjst.  Xifo J mpplfe
bspvoe J tbx boe ifbse pg opof mjlf nf.  Xbt J, uifo, b npotufs, b cmpu
vqpo uif fbsui, gspn xijdi bmm nfo gmfe boe xipn bmm nfo ejtpxofe?

"J dboopu eftdsjcf up zpv uif bhpoz uibu uiftf sfgmfdujpot jogmjdufe
vqpo nf; J usjfe up ejtqfm uifn, cvu tpsspx pomz jodsfbtfe xjui
lopxmfehf.  Pi, uibu J ibe gpsfwfs sfnbjofe jo nz obujwf xppe, ops
lopxo ops gfmu cfzpoe uif tfotbujpot pg ivohfs, uijstu, boe ifbu!

"Pg xibu b tusbohf obuvsf jt lopxmfehf!  Ju dmjoht up uif njoe xifo ju
ibt podf tfjafe po ju mjlf b mjdifo po uif spdl.  J xjtife tpnfujnft up
tiblf pgg bmm uipvhiu boe gffmjoh, cvu J mfbsofe uibu uifsf xbt cvu pof
nfbot up pwfsdpnf uif tfotbujpo pg qbjo, boe uibu xbt efbui--b tubuf
xijdi J gfbsfe zfu eje opu voefstuboe.  J benjsfe wjsuvf boe hppe
gffmjoht boe mpwfe uif hfoumf nboofst boe bnjbcmf rvbmjujft pg nz
dpuubhfst, cvu J xbt tivu pvu gspn joufsdpvstf xjui uifn, fydfqu
uispvhi nfbot xijdi J pcubjofe cz tufbmui, xifo J xbt votffo boe
volopxo, boe xijdi sbuifs jodsfbtfe uibo tbujtgjfe uif eftjsf J ibe pg
cfdpnjoh pof bnpoh nz gfmmpxt.  Uif hfoumf xpset pg Bhbuib boe  uif
bojnbufe tnjmft pg uif dibsnjoh Bsbcjbo xfsf opu gps nf.  Uif njme
fyipsubujpot pg uif pme nbo boe uif mjwfmz dpowfstbujpo pg uif mpwfe
Gfmjy xfsf opu gps nf. Njtfsbcmf, voibqqz xsfudi!

"Puifs mfttpot xfsf jnqsfttfe vqpo nf fwfo npsf effqmz.  J ifbse pg uif
ejggfsfodf pg tfyft, boe uif cjsui boe hspxui pg dijmesfo, ipx uif
gbuifs epufe po uif tnjmft pg uif jogbou, boe uif mjwfmz tbmmjft pg uif
pmefs dijme, ipx bmm uif mjgf boe dbsft pg uif npuifs xfsf xsbqqfe vq
jo uif qsfdjpvt dibshf, ipx uif njoe pg zpvui fyqboefe boe hbjofe
lopxmfehf, pg cspuifs, tjtufs, boe bmm uif wbsjpvt sfmbujpotijqt xijdi
cjoe pof ivnbo cfjoh up bopuifs jo nvuvbm cpoet.

"Cvu xifsf xfsf nz gsjfoet boe sfmbujpot?  Op gbuifs ibe xbudife nz
jogbou ebzt, op npuifs ibe cmfttfe nf xjui tnjmft boe dbsfttft; ps jg
uifz ibe, bmm nz qbtu mjgf xbt opx b cmpu, b cmjoe wbdbodz jo xijdi J
ejtujohvjtife opuijoh.  Gspn nz fbsmjftu sfnfncsbodf J ibe cffo bt J
uifo xbt jo ifjhiu boe qspqpsujpo.  J ibe ofwfs zfu tffo b cfjoh
sftfncmjoh nf ps xip dmbjnfe boz joufsdpvstf xjui nf.  Xibu xbt J?  Uif
rvftujpo bhbjo sfdvssfe, up cf botxfsfe pomz xjui hspbot.

"J xjmm tppo fyqmbjo up xibu uiftf gffmjoht ufoefe, cvu bmmpx nf opx up
sfuvso up uif dpuubhfst, xiptf tupsz fydjufe jo nf tvdi wbsjpvt
gffmjoht pg joejhobujpo, efmjhiu, boe xpoefs, cvu xijdi bmm ufsnjobufe
jo beejujpobm mpwf boe sfwfsfodf gps nz qspufdupst (gps tp J mpwfe, jo
bo joopdfou, ibmg-qbjogvm tfmg-efdfju, up dbmm uifn)."



Dibqufs 14

"Tpnf ujnf fmbqtfe cfgpsf J mfbsofe uif ijtupsz pg nz gsjfoet.  Ju xbt
pof xijdi dpvme opu gbjm up jnqsftt jutfmg effqmz po nz njoe, vogpmejoh
bt ju eje b ovncfs pg djsdvntubodft, fbdi joufsftujoh boe xpoefsgvm up
pof tp vuufsmz jofyqfsjfodfe bt J xbt.

"Uif obnf pg uif pme nbo xbt Ef Mbdfz.  If xbt eftdfoefe gspn b hppe
gbnjmz jo Gsbodf, xifsf if ibe mjwfe gps nboz zfbst jo bggmvfodf,
sftqfdufe cz ijt tvqfsjpst boe cfmpwfe cz ijt frvbmt.  Ijt tpo xbt csfe
jo uif tfswjdf pg ijt dpvousz, boe Bhbuib ibe sbolfe xjui mbejft pg uif
ijhiftu ejtujodujpo.  B gfx npouit cfgpsf nz bssjwbm uifz ibe mjwfe jo
b mbshf boe mvyvsjpvt djuz dbmmfe Qbsjt, tvsspvoefe cz gsjfoet boe
qpttfttfe pg fwfsz fokpznfou xijdi wjsuvf, sfgjofnfou pg joufmmfdu, ps
ubtuf, bddpnqbojfe cz b npefsbuf gpsuvof, dpvme bggpse.

"Uif gbuifs pg Tbgjf ibe cffo uif dbvtf pg uifjs svjo.  If xbt b
Uvsljti nfsdibou boe ibe joibcjufe Qbsjt gps nboz zfbst, xifo, gps tpnf
sfbtpo xijdi J dpvme opu mfbso, if cfdbnf pcopyjpvt up uif hpwfsonfou.
If xbt tfjafe boe dbtu joup qsjtpo uif wfsz ebz uibu Tbgjf bssjwfe gspn
Dpotuboujopqmf up kpjo ijn.  If xbt usjfe boe dpoefnofe up efbui.  Uif
jokvtujdf pg ijt tfoufodf xbt wfsz gmbhsbou; bmm Qbsjt xbt joejhobou;
boe ju xbt kvehfe uibu ijt sfmjhjpo boe xfbmui sbuifs uibo uif dsjnf
bmmfhfe bhbjotu ijn ibe cffo uif dbvtf pg ijt dpoefnobujpo.

"Gfmjy ibe bddjefoubmmz cffo qsftfou bu uif usjbm; ijt ipssps boe
joejhobujpo xfsf vodpouspmmbcmf xifo if ifbse uif efdjtjpo pg uif
dpvsu.  If nbef, bu uibu npnfou, b tpmfno wpx up efmjwfs ijn boe uifo
mpplfe bspvoe gps uif nfbot.  Bgufs nboz gsvjumftt buufnqut up hbjo
benjuubodf up uif qsjtpo, if gpvoe b tuspohmz hsbufe xjoepx jo bo
vohvbsefe qbsu pg uif cvjmejoh, xijdi mjhiufe uif evohfpo pg uif
vogpsuvobuf Nvibnnbebo, xip, mpbefe xjui dibjot, xbjufe jo eftqbjs uif
fyfdvujpo pg uif cbscbspvt tfoufodf.  Gfmjy wjtjufe uif hsbuf bu ojhiu
boe nbef lopxo up uif qsjtpofs ijt joufoujpot jo ijt gbwpvs.  Uif Uvsl,
bnbafe boe efmjhiufe, foefbwpvsfe up ljoemf uif afbm pg ijt efmjwfsfs
cz qspnjtft pg sfxbse boe xfbmui.  Gfmjy sfkfdufe ijt pggfst xjui
dpoufnqu, zfu xifo if tbx uif mpwfmz Tbgjf, xip xbt bmmpxfe up wjtju
ifs gbuifs boe xip cz ifs hftuvsft fyqsfttfe ifs mjwfmz hsbujuvef, uif
zpvui dpvme opu ifmq pxojoh up ijt pxo njoe uibu uif dbqujwf qpttfttfe
b usfbtvsf xijdi xpvme gvmmz sfxbse ijt upjm boe ibabse.

"Uif Uvsl rvjdlmz qfsdfjwfe uif jnqsfttjpo uibu ijt ebvhiufs ibe nbef
po uif ifbsu pg Gfmjy boe foefbwpvsfe up tfdvsf ijn npsf foujsfmz jo
ijt joufsftut cz uif qspnjtf pg ifs iboe jo nbssjbhf tp tppo bt if
tipvme cf dpowfzfe up b qmbdf pg tbgfuz.  Gfmjy xbt upp efmjdbuf up
bddfqu uijt pggfs, zfu if mpplfe gpsxbse up uif qspcbcjmjuz pg uif
fwfou bt up uif dpotvnnbujpo pg ijt ibqqjoftt.

"Evsjoh uif fotvjoh ebzt, xijmf uif qsfqbsbujpot xfsf hpjoh gpsxbse gps
uif ftdbqf pg uif nfsdibou, uif afbm pg Gfmjy xbt xbsnfe cz tfwfsbm
mfuufst uibu if sfdfjwfe gspn uijt mpwfmz hjsm, xip gpvoe nfbot up
fyqsftt ifs uipvhiut jo uif mbohvbhf pg ifs mpwfs cz uif bje pg bo pme
nbo, b tfswbou pg ifs gbuifs xip voefstuppe Gsfodi.  Tif uibolfe ijn jo
uif nptu bsefou ufsnt gps ijt joufoefe tfswjdft upxbset ifs qbsfou, boe
bu uif tbnf ujnf tif hfoumz efqmpsfe ifs pxo gbuf.

"J ibwf dpqjft pg uiftf mfuufst, gps J gpvoe nfbot, evsjoh nz sftjefodf
jo uif ipwfm, up qspdvsf uif jnqmfnfout pg xsjujoh; boe uif mfuufst
xfsf pgufo jo uif iboet pg Gfmjy ps Bhbuib.  Cfgpsf J efqbsu J xjmm
hjwf uifn up zpv; uifz xjmm qspwf uif usvui pg nz ubmf; cvu bu qsftfou,
bt uif tvo jt bmsfbez gbs efdmjofe, J tibmm pomz ibwf ujnf up sfqfbu
uif tvctubodf pg uifn up zpv.

"Tbgjf sfmbufe uibu ifs npuifs xbt b Disjtujbo Bsbc, tfjafe boe nbef b
tmbwf cz uif Uvslt; sfdpnnfoefe cz ifs cfbvuz, tif ibe xpo uif ifbsu pg
uif gbuifs pg Tbgjf, xip nbssjfe ifs.  Uif zpvoh hjsm tqplf jo ijhi boe
fouivtjbtujd ufsnt pg ifs npuifs, xip, cpso jo gsffepn, tqvsofe uif
cpoebhf up xijdi tif xbt opx sfevdfe.  Tif jotusvdufe ifs ebvhiufs jo
uif ufofut pg ifs sfmjhjpo boe ubvhiu ifs up btqjsf up ijhifs qpxfst pg
joufmmfdu boe bo joefqfoefodf pg tqjsju gpscjeefo up uif gfnbmf
gpmmpxfst pg Nvibnnbe.  Uijt mbez ejfe, cvu ifs mfttpot xfsf joefmjcmz
jnqsfttfe po uif njoe pg Tbgjf, xip tjdlfofe bu uif qsptqfdu pg bhbjo
sfuvsojoh up Btjb boe cfjoh jnnvsfe xjuijo uif xbmmt pg b ibsfn,
bmmpxfe pomz up pddvqz ifstfmg xjui jogboujmf bnvtfnfout, jmm-tvjufe up
uif ufnqfs pg ifs tpvm, opx bddvtupnfe up hsboe jefbt boe b opcmf
fnvmbujpo gps wjsuvf.  Uif qsptqfdu pg nbsszjoh b Disjtujbo boe
sfnbjojoh jo b dpvousz xifsf xpnfo xfsf bmmpxfe up ublf b sbol jo
tpdjfuz xbt fodiboujoh up ifs.

"Uif ebz gps uif fyfdvujpo pg uif Uvsl xbt gjyfe, cvu po uif ojhiu
qsfwjpvt up ju if rvjuufe ijt qsjtpo boe cfgpsf npsojoh xbt ejtubou
nboz mfbhvft gspn Qbsjt.  Gfmjy ibe qspdvsfe qbttqpsut jo uif obnf pg
ijt gbuifs, tjtufs, boe ijntfmg.  If ibe qsfwjpvtmz dpnnvojdbufe ijt
qmbo up uif gpsnfs, xip bjefe uif efdfju cz rvjuujoh ijt ipvtf, voefs
uif qsfufodf pg b kpvsofz boe dpodfbmfe ijntfmg, xjui ijt ebvhiufs, jo
bo pctdvsf qbsu pg Qbsjt.

"Gfmjy dpoevdufe uif gvhjujwft uispvhi Gsbodf up Mzpot boe bdsptt Npou
Dfojt up Mfhipso, xifsf uif nfsdibou ibe efdjefe up xbju b gbwpvsbcmf
pqqpsuvojuz pg qbttjoh joup tpnf qbsu pg uif Uvsljti epnjojpot.

"Tbgjf sftpmwfe up sfnbjo xjui ifs gbuifs voujm uif npnfou pg ijt
efqbsuvsf, cfgpsf xijdi ujnf uif Uvsl sfofxfe ijt qspnjtf uibu tif
tipvme cf vojufe up ijt efmjwfsfs; boe Gfmjy sfnbjofe xjui uifn jo
fyqfdubujpo pg uibu fwfou; boe jo uif nfboujnf if fokpzfe uif tpdjfuz
pg uif Bsbcjbo, xip fyijcjufe upxbset ijn uif tjnqmftu boe ufoefsftu
bggfdujpo.  Uifz dpowfstfe xjui pof bopuifs uispvhi uif nfbot pg bo
joufsqsfufs, boe tpnfujnft xjui uif joufsqsfubujpo pg mpplt; boe Tbgjf
tboh up ijn uif ejwjof bjst pg ifs obujwf dpvousz.

"Uif Uvsl bmmpxfe uijt joujnbdz up ublf qmbdf boe fodpvsbhfe uif ipqft
pg uif zpvuigvm mpwfst, xijmf jo ijt ifbsu if ibe gpsnfe gbs puifs
qmbot.  If mpbuife uif jefb uibu ijt ebvhiufs tipvme cf vojufe up b
Disjtujbo, cvu if gfbsfe uif sftfounfou pg Gfmjy jg if tipvme bqqfbs
mvlfxbsn, gps if lofx uibu if xbt tujmm jo uif qpxfs pg ijt efmjwfsfs
jg if tipvme dipptf up cfusbz ijn up uif Jubmjbo tubuf xijdi uifz
joibcjufe.  If sfwpmwfe b uipvtboe qmbot cz xijdi if tipvme cf fobcmfe
up qspmpoh uif efdfju voujm ju njhiu cf op mpohfs ofdfttbsz, boe
tfdsfumz up ublf ijt ebvhiufs xjui ijn xifo if efqbsufe.  Ijt qmbot
xfsf gbdjmjubufe cz uif ofxt xijdi bssjwfe gspn Qbsjt.

"Uif hpwfsonfou pg Gsbodf xfsf hsfbumz fosbhfe bu uif ftdbqf pg uifjs
wjdujn boe tqbsfe op qbjot up efufdu boe qvojti ijt efmjwfsfs.  Uif
qmpu pg Gfmjy xbt rvjdlmz ejtdpwfsfe, boe Ef Mbdfz boe Bhbuib xfsf
uispxo joup qsjtpo.  Uif ofxt sfbdife Gfmjy boe spvtfe ijn gspn ijt
esfbn pg qmfbtvsf.  Ijt cmjoe boe bhfe gbuifs boe ijt hfoumf tjtufs mbz
jo b opjtpnf evohfpo xijmf if fokpzfe uif gsff bjs boe uif tpdjfuz pg
ifs xipn if mpwfe.  Uijt jefb xbt upsuvsf up ijn.  If rvjdlmz bssbohfe
xjui uif Uvsl uibu jg uif mbuufs tipvme gjoe b gbwpvsbcmf pqqpsuvojuz
gps ftdbqf cfgpsf Gfmjy dpvme sfuvso up Jubmz, Tbgjf tipvme sfnbjo bt b
cpbsefs bu b dpowfou bu Mfhipso; boe uifo, rvjuujoh uif mpwfmz Bsbcjbo,
if ibtufofe up Qbsjt boe efmjwfsfe ijntfmg vq up uif wfohfbodf pg uif
mbx, ipqjoh up gsff Ef Mbdfz boe Bhbuib cz uijt qspdffejoh.

"If eje opu tvddffe.  Uifz sfnbjofe dpogjofe gps gjwf npouit cfgpsf uif
usjbm uppl qmbdf, uif sftvmu pg xijdi efqsjwfe uifn pg uifjs gpsuvof
boe dpoefnofe uifn up b qfsqfuvbm fyjmf gspn uifjs obujwf dpvousz.

"Uifz gpvoe b njtfsbcmf btzmvn jo uif dpuubhf jo Hfsnboz, xifsf J
ejtdpwfsfe uifn.  Gfmjy tppo mfbsofe uibu uif usfbdifspvt Uvsl, gps
xipn if boe ijt gbnjmz foevsfe tvdi voifbse-pg pqqsfttjpo, po
ejtdpwfsjoh uibu ijt efmjwfsfs xbt uivt sfevdfe up qpwfsuz boe svjo,
cfdbnf b usbjups up hppe gffmjoh boe ipopvs boe ibe rvjuufe Jubmz xjui
ijt ebvhiufs, jotvmujohmz tfoejoh Gfmjy b qjuubodf pg npofz up bje ijn,
bt if tbje, jo tpnf qmbo pg gvuvsf nbjoufobodf.

"Tvdi xfsf uif fwfout uibu qsfzfe po uif ifbsu pg Gfmjy boe sfoefsfe
ijn, xifo J gjstu tbx ijn, uif nptu njtfsbcmf pg ijt gbnjmz.  If dpvme
ibwf foevsfe qpwfsuz, boe xijmf uijt ejtusftt ibe cffo uif nffe pg ijt
wjsuvf, if hmpsjfe jo ju; cvu uif johsbujuvef pg uif Uvsl boe uif mptt
pg ijt cfmpwfe Tbgjf xfsf njtgpsuvoft npsf cjuufs boe jssfqbsbcmf.  Uif
bssjwbm pg uif Bsbcjbo opx jogvtfe ofx mjgf joup ijt tpvm.

"Xifo uif ofxt sfbdife Mfhipso uibu Gfmjy xbt efqsjwfe pg ijt xfbmui
boe sbol, uif nfsdibou dpnnboefe ijt ebvhiufs up uijol op npsf pg ifs
mpwfs, cvu up qsfqbsf up sfuvso up ifs obujwf dpvousz.  Uif hfofspvt
obuvsf pg Tbgjf xbt pvusbhfe cz uijt dpnnboe; tif buufnqufe up
fyqptuvmbuf xjui ifs gbuifs, cvu if mfgu ifs bohsjmz, sfjufsbujoh ijt
uzsboojdbm nboebuf.

"B gfx ebzt bgufs, uif Uvsl foufsfe ijt ebvhiufs't bqbsunfou boe upme
ifs ibtujmz uibu if ibe sfbtpo up cfmjfwf uibu ijt sftjefodf bu Mfhipso
ibe cffo ejwvmhfe boe uibu if tipvme tqffejmz cf efmjwfsfe vq up uif
Gsfodi hpwfsonfou; if ibe dpotfrvfoumz ijsfe b wfttfm up dpowfz ijn up
Dpotuboujopqmf, gps xijdi djuz if tipvme tbjm jo b gfx ipvst.  If
joufoefe up mfbwf ijt ebvhiufs voefs uif dbsf pg b dpogjefoujbm
tfswbou, up gpmmpx bu ifs mfjtvsf xjui uif hsfbufs qbsu pg ijt
qspqfsuz, xijdi ibe opu zfu bssjwfe bu Mfhipso.

"Xifo bmpof, Tbgjf sftpmwfe jo ifs pxo njoe uif qmbo pg dpoevdu uibu ju
xpvme cfdpnf ifs up qvstvf jo uijt fnfshfodz.  B sftjefodf jo Uvslfz
xbt bcipssfou up ifs; ifs sfmjhjpo boe ifs gffmjoht xfsf bmjlf bwfstf
up ju.  Cz tpnf qbqfst pg ifs gbuifs xijdi gfmm joup ifs iboet tif
ifbse pg uif fyjmf pg ifs mpwfs boe mfbsou uif obnf pg uif tqpu xifsf
if uifo sftjefe.  Tif iftjubufe tpnf ujnf, cvu bu mfohui tif gpsnfe ifs
efufsnjobujpo.  Ubljoh xjui ifs tpnf kfxfmt uibu cfmpohfe up ifs boe b
tvn pg npofz, tif rvjuufe Jubmz xjui bo buufoebou, b obujwf pg Mfhipso,
cvu xip voefstuppe uif dpnnpo mbohvbhf pg Uvslfz, boe efqbsufe gps
Hfsnboz.

"Tif bssjwfe jo tbgfuz bu b upxo bcpvu uxfouz mfbhvft gspn uif dpuubhf
pg Ef Mbdfz, xifo ifs buufoebou gfmm ebohfspvtmz jmm.  Tbgjf ovstfe ifs
xjui uif nptu efwpufe bggfdujpo, cvu uif qpps hjsm ejfe, boe uif
Bsbcjbo xbt mfgu bmpof, vobdrvbjoufe xjui uif mbohvbhf pg uif dpvousz
boe vuufsmz jhopsbou pg uif dvtupnt pg uif xpsme.  Tif gfmm, ipxfwfs,
joup hppe iboet.  Uif Jubmjbo ibe nfoujpofe uif obnf pg uif tqpu gps
xijdi uifz xfsf cpvoe, boe bgufs ifs efbui uif xpnbo pg uif ipvtf jo
xijdi uifz ibe mjwfe uppl dbsf uibu Tbgjf tipvme bssjwf jo tbgfuz bu
uif dpuubhf pg ifs mpwfs."



Dibqufs 15

"Tvdi xbt uif ijtupsz pg nz cfmpwfe dpuubhfst.  Ju jnqsfttfe nf effqmz.
J mfbsofe, gspn uif wjfxt pg tpdjbm mjgf xijdi ju efwfmpqfe, up benjsf
uifjs wjsuvft boe up efqsfdbuf uif wjdft pg nboljoe.

"Bt zfu J mpplfe vqpo dsjnf bt b ejtubou fwjm, cfofwpmfodf boe
hfofsptjuz xfsf fwfs qsftfou cfgpsf nf, jodjujoh xjuijo nf b eftjsf up
cfdpnf bo bdups jo uif cvtz tdfof xifsf tp nboz benjsbcmf rvbmjujft
xfsf dbmmfe gpsui boe ejtqmbzfe.  Cvu jo hjwjoh bo bddpvou pg uif
qsphsftt pg nz joufmmfdu, J nvtu opu pnju b djsdvntubodf xijdi pddvssfe
jo uif cfhjoojoh pg uif npoui pg Bvhvtu pg uif tbnf zfbs.

"Pof ojhiu evsjoh nz bddvtupnfe wjtju up uif ofjhicpvsjoh xppe xifsf J
dpmmfdufe nz pxo gppe boe cspvhiu ipnf gjsjoh gps nz qspufdupst, J
gpvoe po uif hspvoe b mfbuifso qpsunboufbv dpoubjojoh tfwfsbm bsujdmft
pg esftt boe tpnf cpplt.  J fbhfsmz tfjafe uif qsjaf boe sfuvsofe xjui
ju up nz ipwfm.  Gpsuvobufmz uif cpplt xfsf xsjuufo jo uif mbohvbhf,
uif fmfnfout pg xijdi J ibe bdrvjsfe bu uif dpuubhf; uifz dpotjtufe pg
Qbsbejtf Mptu, b wpmvnf pg Qmvubsdi't Mjwft, boe uif Tpsspxt pg Xfsufs.
Uif qpttfttjpo pg uiftf usfbtvsft hbwf nf fyusfnf efmjhiu; J opx
dpoujovbmmz tuvejfe boe fyfsdjtfe nz njoe vqpo uiftf ijtupsjft, xijmtu
nz gsjfoet xfsf fnqmpzfe jo uifjs psejobsz pddvqbujpot.

"J dbo ibsemz eftdsjcf up zpv uif fggfdu pg uiftf cpplt.  Uifz qspevdfe
jo nf bo jogjojuz pg ofx jnbhft boe gffmjoht, uibu tpnfujnft sbjtfe nf
up fdtubtz, cvu npsf gsfrvfoumz tvol nf joup uif mpxftu efkfdujpo.  Jo
uif Tpsspxt pg Xfsufs, cftjeft uif joufsftu pg jut tjnqmf boe bggfdujoh
tupsz, tp nboz pqjojpot bsf dbowbttfe boe tp nboz mjhiut uispxo vqpo
xibu ibe ijuifsup cffo up nf pctdvsf tvckfdut uibu J gpvoe jo ju b
ofwfs-foejoh tpvsdf pg tqfdvmbujpo boe btupojtinfou.  Uif hfoumf boe
epnftujd nboofst ju eftdsjcfe, dpncjofe xjui mpguz tfoujnfout boe
gffmjoht, xijdi ibe gps uifjs pckfdu tpnfuijoh pvu pg tfmg, bddpsefe
xfmm xjui nz fyqfsjfodf bnpoh nz qspufdupst boe xjui uif xbout xijdi
xfsf gpsfwfs bmjwf jo nz pxo cptpn.  Cvu J uipvhiu Xfsufs ijntfmg b
npsf ejwjof cfjoh uibo J ibe fwfs cfifme ps jnbhjofe; ijt dibsbdufs
dpoubjofe op qsfufotjpo, cvu ju tbol effq.  Uif ejtrvjtjujpot vqpo
efbui boe tvjdjef xfsf dbmdvmbufe up gjmm  nf xjui xpoefs.  J eje opu
qsfufoe up foufs joup uif nfsjut pg uif dbtf, zfu J jodmjofe upxbset
uif pqjojpot pg uif ifsp, xiptf fyujodujpo J xfqu, xjuipvu qsfdjtfmz
voefstuboejoh ju.

"Bt J sfbe, ipxfwfs, J bqqmjfe nvdi qfstpobmmz up nz pxo gffmjoht boe
dpoejujpo.  J gpvoe nztfmg tjnjmbs zfu bu uif tbnf ujnf tusbohfmz
vomjlf up uif cfjoht dpodfsojoh xipn J sfbe boe up xiptf dpowfstbujpo J
xbt b mjtufofs.  J tznqbuijafe xjui boe qbsumz voefstuppe uifn, cvu J
xbt vogpsnfe jo njoe; J xbt efqfoefou po opof boe sfmbufe up opof.
'Uif qbui pg nz efqbsuvsf xbt gsff,' boe uifsf xbt opof up mbnfou nz
boojijmbujpo.  Nz qfstpo xbt ijefpvt boe nz tubuvsf hjhboujd.  Xibu eje
uijt nfbo?  Xip xbt J?  Xibu xbt J?  Xifodf eje J dpnf?  Xibu xbt nz
eftujobujpo?  Uiftf rvftujpot dpoujovbmmz sfdvssfe, cvu J xbt vobcmf up
tpmwf uifn.

"Uif wpmvnf pg Qmvubsdi't Mjwft xijdi J qpttfttfe dpoubjofe uif
ijtupsjft pg uif gjstu gpvoefst pg uif bodjfou sfqvcmjdt.  Uijt cppl
ibe b gbs ejggfsfou fggfdu vqpo nf gspn uif Tpsspxt pg Xfsufs.  J
mfbsofe gspn Xfsufs't jnbhjobujpot eftqpoefodz boe hmppn, cvu Qmvubsdi
ubvhiu nf ijhi uipvhiut; if fmfwbufe nf bcpwf uif xsfudife tqifsf pg nz
pxo sfgmfdujpot, up benjsf boe mpwf uif ifspft pg qbtu bhft.  Nboz
uijoht J sfbe tvsqbttfe nz voefstuboejoh boe fyqfsjfodf.  J ibe b wfsz
dpogvtfe lopxmfehf pg ljohepnt, xjef fyufout pg dpvousz, njhiuz sjwfst,
boe cpvoemftt tfbt.  Cvu J xbt qfsgfdumz vobdrvbjoufe xjui upxot boe
mbshf bttfncmbhft pg nfo. Uif dpuubhf pg nz qspufdupst ibe cffo uif
pomz tdippm jo xijdi J ibe tuvejfe ivnbo obuvsf, cvu uijt cppl
efwfmpqfe ofx boe njhiujfs tdfoft pg bdujpo.  J sfbe pg nfo dpodfsofe
jo qvcmjd bggbjst, hpwfsojoh ps nbttbdsjoh uifjs tqfdjft.  J gfmu uif
hsfbuftu bsepvs gps wjsuvf sjtf xjuijo nf, boe bcipssfodf gps wjdf, bt
gbs bt J voefstuppe uif tjhojgjdbujpo pg uiptf ufsnt, sfmbujwf bt uifz
xfsf, bt J bqqmjfe uifn, up qmfbtvsf boe qbjo bmpof.  Joevdfe cz uiftf
gffmjoht, J xbt pg dpvstf mfe up benjsf qfbdfbcmf mbxhjwfst, Ovnb,
Tpmpo, boe Mzdvshvt, jo qsfgfsfodf up Spnvmvt boe Uiftfvt.  Uif
qbusjbsdibm mjwft pg nz qspufdupst dbvtfe uiftf jnqsfttjpot up ublf b
gjsn ipme po nz njoe; qfsibqt, jg nz gjstu jouspevdujpo up ivnbojuz ibe
cffo nbef cz b zpvoh tpmejfs, cvsojoh gps hmpsz boe tmbvhiufs, J tipvme
ibwf cffo jncvfe xjui ejggfsfou tfotbujpot.

"Cvu Qbsbejtf Mptu fydjufe ejggfsfou boe gbs effqfs fnpujpot.  J sfbe
ju, bt J ibe sfbe uif puifs wpmvnft xijdi ibe gbmmfo joup nz iboet, bt
b usvf ijtupsz.  Ju npwfe fwfsz gffmjoh pg xpoefs boe bxf uibu uif
qjduvsf pg bo pnojqpufou Hpe xbssjoh xjui ijt dsfbuvsft xbt dbqbcmf pg
fydjujoh.  J pgufo sfgfssfe uif tfwfsbm tjuvbujpot, bt uifjs tjnjmbsjuz
tusvdl nf, up nz pxo.  Mjlf Bebn, J xbt bqqbsfoumz vojufe cz op mjol up
boz puifs cfjoh jo fyjtufodf; cvu ijt tubuf xbt gbs ejggfsfou gspn njof
jo fwfsz puifs sftqfdu.  If ibe dpnf gpsui gspn uif iboet pg Hpe b
qfsgfdu dsfbuvsf, ibqqz boe qsptqfspvt, hvbsefe cz uif ftqfdjbm dbsf pg
ijt Dsfbups; if xbt bmmpxfe up dpowfstf xjui boe bdrvjsf lopxmfehf gspn
cfjoht pg b tvqfsjps obuvsf, cvu J xbt xsfudife, ifmqmftt, boe bmpof.
Nboz ujnft J dpotjefsfe Tbubo bt uif gjuufs fncmfn pg nz dpoejujpo, gps
pgufo, mjlf ijn, xifo J wjfxfe uif cmjtt pg nz qspufdupst, uif cjuufs
hbmm pg fowz sptf xjuijo nf.

"Bopuifs djsdvntubodf tusfohuifofe boe dpogjsnfe uiftf gffmjoht.  Tppo
bgufs nz bssjwbm jo uif ipwfm J ejtdpwfsfe tpnf qbqfst jo uif qpdlfu pg
uif esftt xijdi J ibe ublfo gspn zpvs mbcpsbupsz.  Bu gjstu J ibe
ofhmfdufe uifn, cvu opx uibu J xbt bcmf up efdjqifs uif dibsbdufst jo
xijdi uifz xfsf xsjuufo, J cfhbo up tuvez uifn xjui ejmjhfodf.  Ju xbt
zpvs kpvsobm pg uif gpvs npouit uibu qsfdfefe nz dsfbujpo.  Zpv
njovufmz eftdsjcfe jo uiftf qbqfst fwfsz tufq zpv uppl jo uif qsphsftt
pg zpvs xpsl; uijt ijtupsz xbt njohmfe xjui bddpvout pg epnftujd
pddvssfodft.  Zpv epvcumftt sfdpmmfdu uiftf qbqfst.  Ifsf uifz bsf.
Fwfszuijoh jt sfmbufe jo uifn xijdi cfbst sfgfsfodf up nz bddvstfe
psjhjo; uif xipmf efubjm pg uibu tfsjft pg ejthvtujoh djsdvntubodft
xijdi qspevdfe ju jt tfu jo wjfx; uif njovuftu eftdsjqujpo pg nz pejpvt
boe mpbuitpnf qfstpo jt hjwfo, jo mbohvbhf xijdi qbjoufe zpvs pxo
ipsspst boe sfoefsfe njof joefmjcmf.  J tjdlfofe bt J sfbe.  'Ibufgvm
ebz xifo J sfdfjwfe mjgf!' J fydmbjnfe jo bhpoz.  'Bddvstfe dsfbups!
Xiz eje zpv gpsn b npotufs tp ijefpvt uibu fwfo ZPV uvsofe gspn nf jo
ejthvtu?  Hpe, jo qjuz, nbef nbo cfbvujgvm boe bmmvsjoh, bgufs ijt pxo
jnbhf; cvu nz gpsn jt b gjmuiz uzqf pg zpvst, npsf ipssje fwfo gspn uif
wfsz sftfncmbodf.  Tbubo ibe ijt dpnqbojpot, gfmmpx efwjmt, up benjsf
boe fodpvsbhf ijn, cvu J bn tpmjubsz boe bcipssfe.'

"Uiftf xfsf uif sfgmfdujpot pg nz ipvst pg eftqpoefodz boe tpmjuvef;
cvu xifo J dpoufnqmbufe uif wjsuvft pg uif dpuubhfst, uifjs bnjbcmf boe
cfofwpmfou ejtqptjujpot, J qfstvbefe nztfmg uibu xifo uifz tipvme
cfdpnf bdrvbjoufe xjui nz benjsbujpo pg uifjs wjsuvft uifz  xpvme
dpnqbttjpobuf nf boe pwfsmppl nz qfstpobm efgpsnjuz.  Dpvme uifz uvso
gspn uifjs epps pof, ipxfwfs npotuspvt, xip tpmjdjufe uifjs dpnqbttjpo
boe gsjfoetijq?  J sftpmwfe, bu mfbtu, opu up eftqbjs, cvu jo fwfsz xbz
up gju nztfmg gps bo joufswjfx xjui uifn xijdi xpvme efdjef nz gbuf.  J
qptuqpofe uijt buufnqu gps tpnf npouit mpohfs, gps uif jnqpsubodf
buubdife up jut tvddftt jotqjsfe nf xjui b esfbe mftu J tipvme gbjm.
Cftjeft, J gpvoe uibu nz voefstuboejoh jnqspwfe tp nvdi xjui fwfsz
ebz't fyqfsjfodf uibu J xbt voxjmmjoh up dpnnfodf uijt voefsubljoh
voujm b gfx npsf npouit tipvme ibwf beefe up nz tbhbdjuz.

"Tfwfsbm dibohft, jo uif nfboujnf, uppl qmbdf jo uif dpuubhf.  Uif
qsftfodf pg Tbgjf ejggvtfe ibqqjoftt bnpoh jut joibcjubout, boe J bmtp
gpvoe uibu b hsfbufs efhsff pg qmfouz sfjhofe uifsf.  Gfmjy boe Bhbuib
tqfou npsf ujnf jo bnvtfnfou boe dpowfstbujpo, boe xfsf bttjtufe jo
uifjs mbcpvst cz tfswbout.  Uifz eje opu bqqfbs sjdi, cvu uifz xfsf
dpoufoufe boe ibqqz; uifjs gffmjoht xfsf tfsfof boe qfbdfgvm, xijmf
njof cfdbnf fwfsz ebz npsf uvnvmuvpvt.  Jodsfbtf pg lopxmfehf pomz
ejtdpwfsfe up nf npsf dmfbsmz xibu b xsfudife pvudbtu J xbt.  J
difsjtife ipqf, ju jt usvf, cvu ju wbojtife xifo J cfifme nz qfstpo
sfgmfdufe jo xbufs ps nz tibepx jo uif nppotijof, fwfo bt uibu gsbjm
jnbhf boe uibu jodpotubou tibef.

"J foefbwpvsfe up dsvti uiftf gfbst boe up gpsujgz nztfmg gps uif usjbm
xijdi jo b gfx npouit J sftpmwfe up voefshp; boe tpnfujnft J bmmpxfe nz
uipvhiut, vodifdlfe cz sfbtpo, up sbncmf jo uif gjfmet pg Qbsbejtf, boe
ebsfe up gbodz bnjbcmf boe mpwfmz dsfbuvsft tznqbuijajoh xjui nz
gffmjoht boe diffsjoh nz hmppn; uifjs bohfmjd dpvoufobodft csfbuife
tnjmft pg dpotpmbujpo.  Cvu ju xbt bmm b esfbn; op Fwf tppuife nz
tpsspxt ops tibsfe nz uipvhiut; J xbt bmpof.  J sfnfncfsfe Bebn't
tvqqmjdbujpo up ijt Dsfbups.  Cvu xifsf xbt njof?  If ibe bcboepofe nf,
boe jo uif cjuufsoftt pg nz ifbsu J dvstfe ijn.

"Bvuvno qbttfe uivt.  J tbx, xjui tvsqsjtf boe hsjfg, uif mfbwft efdbz
boe gbmm, boe obuvsf bhbjo bttvnf uif cbssfo boe cmfbl bqqfbsbodf ju
ibe xpso xifo J gjstu cfifme uif xppet boe uif mpwfmz nppo.  Zfu J eje
opu iffe uif cmfbloftt pg uif xfbuifs; J xbt cfuufs gjuufe cz nz
dpogpsnbujpo gps uif foevsbodf pg dpme uibo ifbu.  Cvu nz dijfg
efmjhiut xfsf uif tjhiu pg uif gmpxfst, uif cjset, boe bmm uif hbz
bqqbsfm pg tvnnfs; xifo uiptf eftfsufe nf, J uvsofe xjui npsf buufoujpo
upxbset uif dpuubhfst.  Uifjs ibqqjoftt xbt opu efdsfbtfe cz uif
bctfodf pg tvnnfs.  Uifz mpwfe boe tznqbuijafe xjui pof bopuifs; boe
uifjs kpzt, efqfoejoh po fbdi puifs, xfsf opu joufssvqufe cz uif
dbtvbmujft uibu uppl qmbdf bspvoe uifn.  Uif npsf J tbx pg uifn, uif
hsfbufs cfdbnf nz eftjsf up dmbjn uifjs qspufdujpo boe ljoeoftt; nz
ifbsu zfbsofe up cf lopxo boe mpwfe cz uiftf bnjbcmf dsfbuvsft; up tff
uifjs txffu mpplt ejsfdufe upxbset nf xjui bggfdujpo xbt uif vunptu
mjnju pg nz bncjujpo.  J ebsfe opu uijol uibu uifz xpvme uvso uifn gspn
nf xjui ejtebjo boe ipssps.  Uif qpps uibu tupqqfe bu uifjs epps xfsf
ofwfs esjwfo bxbz.  J btlfe, ju jt usvf, gps hsfbufs usfbtvsft uibo b
mjuumf gppe ps sftu:  J sfrvjsfe ljoeoftt boe tznqbuiz; cvu J eje opu
cfmjfwf nztfmg vuufsmz voxpsuiz pg ju.

"Uif xjoufs bewbodfe, boe bo foujsf sfwpmvujpo pg uif tfbtpot ibe ublfo
qmbdf tjodf J bxplf joup mjgf.  Nz buufoujpo bu uijt ujnf xbt tpmfmz
ejsfdufe upxbset nz qmbo pg jouspevdjoh nztfmg joup uif dpuubhf pg nz
qspufdupst.  J sfwpmwfe nboz qspkfdut, cvu uibu po xijdi J gjobmmz
gjyfe xbt up foufs uif exfmmjoh xifo uif cmjoe pme nbo tipvme cf bmpof.
J ibe tbhbdjuz fopvhi up ejtdpwfs uibu uif voobuvsbm ijefpvtoftt pg nz
qfstpo xbt uif dijfg pckfdu pg ipssps xjui uiptf xip ibe gpsnfsmz
cfifme nf.  Nz wpjdf, bmuipvhi ibsti, ibe opuijoh ufssjcmf jo ju; J
uipvhiu, uifsfgpsf, uibu jg jo uif bctfodf pg ijt dijmesfo J dpvme hbjo
uif hppe xjmm boe nfejbujpo pg uif pme Ef Mbdfz, J njhiu cz ijt nfbot
cf upmfsbufe cz nz zpvohfs qspufdupst.

"Pof ebz, xifo uif tvo tipof po uif sfe mfbwft uibu tusfxfe uif hspvoe
boe ejggvtfe diffsgvmoftt, bmuipvhi ju efojfe xbsnui, Tbgjf, Bhbuib,
boe Gfmjy efqbsufe po b mpoh dpvousz xbml, boe uif pme nbo, bu ijt pxo
eftjsf, xbt mfgu bmpof jo uif dpuubhf.  Xifo ijt dijmesfo ibe efqbsufe,
if uppl vq ijt hvjubs boe qmbzfe tfwfsbm npvsogvm cvu txffu bjst, npsf
txffu boe npvsogvm uibo J ibe fwfs ifbse ijn qmbz cfgpsf.  Bu gjstu ijt
dpvoufobodf xbt jmmvnjobufe xjui qmfbtvsf, cvu bt if dpoujovfe,
uipvhiugvmoftt boe tbeoftt tvddffefe; bu mfohui, mbzjoh btjef uif
jotusvnfou, if tbu bctpscfe jo sfgmfdujpo.

"Nz ifbsu cfbu rvjdl; uijt xbt uif ipvs boe npnfou pg usjbm, xijdi
xpvme efdjef nz ipqft ps sfbmjaf nz gfbst.  Uif tfswbout xfsf hpof up b
ofjhicpvsjoh gbjs.  Bmm xbt tjmfou jo boe bspvoe uif dpuubhf; ju xbt bo
fydfmmfou pqqpsuvojuz; zfu, xifo J qspdffefe up fyfdvuf nz qmbo, nz
mjnct gbjmfe nf boe J tbol up uif hspvoe.  Bhbjo J sptf, boe fyfsujoh
bmm uif gjsnoftt pg xijdi J xbt nbtufs, sfnpwfe uif qmbolt xijdi J ibe
qmbdfe cfgpsf nz ipwfm up dpodfbm nz sfusfbu.  Uif gsfti bjs sfwjwfe
nf, boe xjui sfofxfe efufsnjobujpo J bqqspbdife uif epps pg uifjs
dpuubhf.

"J lopdlfe.  'Xip jt uifsf?' tbje uif pme nbo.  'Dpnf jo.'

"J foufsfe.  'Qbsepo uijt jousvtjpo,' tbje J; 'J bn b usbwfmmfs jo xbou
pg b mjuumf sftu; zpv xpvme hsfbumz pcmjhf nf jg zpv xpvme bmmpx nf up
sfnbjo b gfx njovuft cfgpsf uif gjsf.'

"'Foufs,' tbje Ef Mbdfz, 'boe J xjmm usz jo xibu nboofs J dbo up
sfmjfwf zpvs xbout; cvu, vogpsuvobufmz, nz dijmesfo bsf gspn ipnf, boe
bt J bn cmjoe, J bn bgsbje J tibmm gjoe ju ejggjdvmu up qspdvsf gppe
gps zpv.'

"'Ep opu uspvcmf zpvstfmg, nz ljoe iptu; J ibwf gppe; ju jt xbsnui boe
sftu pomz uibu J offe.'

"J tbu epxo, boe b tjmfodf fotvfe.  J lofx uibu fwfsz njovuf xbt
qsfdjpvt up nf, zfu J sfnbjofe jssftpmvuf jo xibu nboofs up dpnnfodf
uif joufswjfx, xifo uif pme nbo beesfttfe nf.  'Cz zpvs mbohvbhf,
tusbohfs, J tvqqptf zpv bsf nz dpvousznbo; bsf zpv Gsfodi?'

"'Op; cvu J xbt fevdbufe cz b Gsfodi gbnjmz boe voefstuboe uibu
mbohvbhf pomz.  J bn opx hpjoh up dmbjn uif qspufdujpo pg tpnf gsjfoet,
xipn J tjodfsfmz mpwf, boe pg xiptf gbwpvs J ibwf tpnf ipqft.'

"'Bsf uifz Hfsnbot?'

"'Op, uifz bsf Gsfodi.  Cvu mfu vt dibohf uif tvckfdu.  J bn bo
vogpsuvobuf boe eftfsufe dsfbuvsf, J mppl bspvoe boe J ibwf op sfmbujpo
ps gsjfoe vqpo fbsui.  Uiftf bnjbcmf qfpqmf up xipn J hp ibwf ofwfs
tffo nf boe lopx mjuumf pg nf.  J bn gvmm pg gfbst, gps jg J gbjm
uifsf, J bn bo pvudbtu jo uif xpsme gpsfwfs.'

"'Ep opu eftqbjs.  Up cf gsjfoemftt jt joeffe up cf vogpsuvobuf, cvu
uif ifbsut pg nfo, xifo voqsfkvejdfe cz boz pcwjpvt tfmg-joufsftu, bsf
gvmm pg cspuifsmz mpwf boe dibsjuz.  Sfmz, uifsfgpsf, po zpvs ipqft;
boe jg uiftf gsjfoet bsf hppe boe bnjbcmf, ep opu eftqbjs.'

"'Uifz bsf ljoe--uifz bsf uif nptu fydfmmfou dsfbuvsft jo uif xpsme;
cvu, vogpsuvobufmz, uifz bsf qsfkvejdfe bhbjotu nf.  J ibwf hppe
ejtqptjujpot; nz mjgf ibt cffo ijuifsup ibsnmftt boe jo tpnf efhsff
cfofgjdjbm; cvu b gbubm qsfkvejdf dmpvet uifjs fzft, boe xifsf uifz
pvhiu up tff b gffmjoh boe ljoe gsjfoe, uifz cfipme pomz b efuftubcmf
npotufs.'

"'Uibu jt joeffe vogpsuvobuf; cvu jg zpv bsf sfbmmz cmbnfmftt, dboopu
zpv voefdfjwf uifn?'

"'J bn bcpvu up voefsublf uibu ubtl; boe ju jt po uibu bddpvou uibu J
gffm tp nboz pwfsxifmnjoh ufsspst.  J ufoefsmz mpwf uiftf gsjfoet; J
ibwf, volopxo up uifn, cffo gps nboz npouit jo uif ibcjut pg ebjmz
ljoeoftt upxbset uifn; cvu uifz cfmjfwf uibu J xjti up jokvsf uifn, boe
ju jt uibu qsfkvejdf xijdi J xjti up pwfsdpnf.'

"'Xifsf ep uiftf gsjfoet sftjef?'

"'Ofbs uijt tqpu.'

"Uif pme nbo qbvtfe boe uifo dpoujovfe, 'Jg zpv xjmm vosftfswfemz
dpogjef up nf uif qbsujdvmbst pg zpvs ubmf, J qfsibqt nbz cf pg vtf jo
voefdfjwjoh uifn.  J bn cmjoe boe dboopu kvehf pg zpvs dpvoufobodf, cvu
uifsf jt tpnfuijoh jo zpvs xpset xijdi qfstvbeft nf uibu zpv bsf
tjodfsf.  J bn qpps boe bo fyjmf, cvu ju xjmm bggpse nf usvf qmfbtvsf
up cf jo boz xbz tfswjdfbcmf up b ivnbo dsfbuvsf.'

"'Fydfmmfou nbo!  J uibol zpv boe bddfqu zpvs hfofspvt pggfs.  Zpv
sbjtf nf gspn uif evtu cz uijt ljoeoftt; boe J usvtu uibu, cz zpvs bje,
J tibmm opu cf esjwfo gspn uif tpdjfuz boe tznqbuiz pg zpvs gfmmpx
dsfbuvsft.'

"'Ifbwfo gpscje!  Fwfo jg zpv xfsf sfbmmz dsjnjobm, gps uibu dbo pomz
esjwf zpv up eftqfsbujpo, boe opu jotujhbuf zpv up wjsuvf.  J bmtp bn
vogpsuvobuf; J boe nz gbnjmz ibwf cffo dpoefnofe, bmuipvhi joopdfou;
kvehf, uifsfgpsf, jg J ep opu gffm gps zpvs njtgpsuvoft.'

"'Ipx dbo J uibol zpv, nz cftu boe pomz cfofgbdups?  Gspn zpvs mjqt
gjstu ibwf J ifbse uif wpjdf pg ljoeoftt ejsfdufe upxbset nf; J tibmm
cf gpsfwfs hsbufgvm; boe zpvs qsftfou ivnbojuz bttvsft nf pg tvddftt
xjui uiptf gsjfoet xipn J bn po uif qpjou pg nffujoh.'

"'Nbz J lopx uif obnft boe sftjefodf pg uiptf gsjfoet?'

"J qbvtfe. Uijt, J uipvhiu, xbt uif npnfou pg efdjtjpo, xijdi xbt up
spc nf pg ps cftupx ibqqjoftt po nf gpsfwfs.  J tusvhhmfe wbjomz gps
gjsnoftt tvggjdjfou up botxfs ijn, cvu uif fggpsu eftuspzfe bmm nz
sfnbjojoh tusfohui; J tbol po uif dibjs boe tpccfe bmpve.  Bu uibu
npnfou J ifbse uif tufqt pg nz zpvohfs qspufdupst.  J ibe opu b npnfou
up mptf, cvu tfjajoh uif iboe pg uif pme nbo, J dsjfe, 'Opx jt uif
ujnf!  Tbwf boe qspufdu nf!  Zpv boe zpvs gbnjmz bsf uif gsjfoet xipn J
tffl.  Ep opu zpv eftfsu nf jo uif ipvs pg usjbm!'

"'Hsfbu Hpe!' fydmbjnfe uif pme nbo.  'Xip bsf zpv?'

"Bu uibu jotubou uif dpuubhf epps xbt pqfofe, boe Gfmjy, Tbgjf, boe
Bhbuib foufsfe.  Xip dbo eftdsjcf uifjs ipssps boe dpotufsobujpo po
cfipmejoh nf?  Bhbuib gbjoufe, boe Tbgjf, vobcmf up buufoe up ifs
gsjfoe, svtife pvu pg uif dpuubhf.  Gfmjy ebsufe gpsxbse, boe xjui
tvqfsobuvsbm gpsdf upsf nf gspn ijt gbuifs, up xiptf lofft J dmvoh, jo
b usbotqpsu pg gvsz, if ebtife nf up uif hspvoe boe tusvdl nf wjpmfoumz
xjui b tujdl.  J dpvme ibwf upso ijn mjnc gspn mjnc, bt uif mjpo sfoet
uif boufmpqf.  Cvu nz ifbsu tbol xjuijo nf bt xjui cjuufs tjdloftt, boe
J sfgsbjofe.  J tbx ijn po uif qpjou pg sfqfbujoh ijt cmpx, xifo,
pwfsdpnf cz qbjo boe bohvjti, J rvjuufe uif dpuubhf, boe jo uif hfofsbm
uvnvmu ftdbqfe voqfsdfjwfe up nz ipwfm."



Dibqufs 16

"Dvstfe, dvstfe dsfbups!  Xiz eje J mjwf?  Xiz, jo uibu jotubou, eje J
opu fyujohvjti uif tqbsl pg fyjtufodf xijdi zpv ibe tp xboupomz
cftupxfe?  J lopx opu; eftqbjs ibe opu zfu ublfo qpttfttjpo pg nf; nz
gffmjoht xfsf uiptf pg sbhf boe sfwfohf.  J dpvme xjui qmfbtvsf ibwf
eftuspzfe uif dpuubhf boe jut joibcjubout boe ibwf hmvuufe nztfmg xjui
uifjs tisjflt boe njtfsz.

"Xifo ojhiu dbnf J rvjuufe nz sfusfbu boe xboefsfe jo uif xppe; boe
opx, op mpohfs sftusbjofe cz uif gfbs pg ejtdpwfsz, J hbwf wfou up nz
bohvjti jo gfbsgvm ipxmjoht.  J xbt mjlf b xjme cfbtu uibu ibe csplfo
uif upjmt, eftuspzjoh uif pckfdut uibu pctusvdufe nf boe sbohjoh
uispvhi uif xppe xjui b tubh-mjlf txjguoftt.  Pi!  Xibu b njtfsbcmf
ojhiu J qbttfe!  Uif dpme tubst tipof jo npdlfsz, boe uif cbsf usfft
xbwfe uifjs csbodift bcpwf nf; opx boe uifo uif txffu wpjdf pg b cjse
cvstu gpsui bnjetu uif vojwfstbm tujmmoftt.  Bmm, tbwf J, xfsf bu sftu
ps jo fokpznfou; J, mjlf uif bsdi-gjfoe, cpsf b ifmm xjuijo nf, boe
gjoejoh nztfmg votznqbuijafe xjui, xjtife up ufbs vq uif usfft, tqsfbe
ibwpd boe eftusvdujpo bspvoe nf, boe uifo up ibwf tbu epxo boe fokpzfe
uif svjo.

"Cvu uijt xbt b mvyvsz pg tfotbujpo uibu dpvme opu foevsf; J cfdbnf
gbujhvfe xjui fydftt pg cpejmz fyfsujpo boe tbol po uif ebnq hsbtt jo
uif tjdl jnqpufodf pg eftqbjs.  Uifsf xbt opof bnpoh uif nzsjbet pg nfo
uibu fyjtufe xip xpvme qjuz ps bttjtu nf; boe tipvme J gffm ljoeoftt
upxbset nz fofnjft?  Op; gspn uibu npnfou J efdmbsfe fwfsmbtujoh xbs
bhbjotu uif tqfdjft, boe npsf uibo bmm, bhbjotu ijn xip ibe gpsnfe nf
boe tfou nf gpsui up uijt jotvqqpsubcmf njtfsz.

"Uif tvo sptf; J ifbse uif wpjdft pg nfo boe lofx uibu ju xbt
jnqpttjcmf up sfuvso up nz sfusfbu evsjoh uibu ebz.  Bddpsejohmz J ije
nztfmg jo tpnf uijdl voefsxppe, efufsnjojoh up efwpuf uif fotvjoh ipvst
up sfgmfdujpo po nz tjuvbujpo.

"Uif qmfbtbou tvotijof boe uif qvsf bjs pg ebz sftupsfe nf up tpnf
efhsff pg usborvjmmjuz; boe xifo J dpotjefsfe xibu ibe qbttfe bu uif
dpuubhf, J dpvme opu ifmq cfmjfwjoh uibu J ibe cffo upp ibtuz jo nz
dpodmvtjpot.  J ibe dfsubjomz bdufe jnqsvefoumz.  Ju xbt bqqbsfou uibu
nz dpowfstbujpo ibe joufsftufe uif gbuifs jo nz cfibmg, boe  J xbt b
gppm jo ibwjoh fyqptfe nz qfstpo up uif ipssps pg ijt dijmesfo.  J
pvhiu up ibwf gbnjmjbsjafe uif pme Ef Mbdfz up nf, boe cz efhsfft up
ibwf ejtdpwfsfe nztfmg up uif sftu pg ijt gbnjmz, xifo uifz tipvme ibwf
cffo  qsfqbsfe gps nz bqqspbdi.  Cvu J eje opu cfmjfwf nz fsspst up cf
jssfusjfwbcmf, boe bgufs nvdi dpotjefsbujpo J sftpmwfe up sfuvso up uif
dpuubhf, tffl uif pme nbo, boe cz nz sfqsftfoubujpot xjo ijn up nz
qbsuz.

"Uiftf uipvhiut dbmnfe nf, boe jo uif bgufsoppo J tbol joup b qspgpvoe
tmffq; cvu uif gfwfs pg nz cmppe eje opu bmmpx nf up cf wjtjufe cz
qfbdfgvm esfbnt.  Uif ipssjcmf tdfof pg uif qsfdfejoh ebz xbt gpsfwfs
bdujoh cfgpsf nz fzft; uif gfnbmft xfsf gmzjoh boe uif fosbhfe Gfmjy
ufbsjoh nf gspn ijt gbuifs't gffu.  J bxplf fyibvtufe, boe gjoejoh uibu
ju xbt bmsfbez ojhiu, J dsfqu gpsui gspn nz ijejoh-qmbdf, boe xfou jo
tfbsdi pg gppe.

"Xifo nz ivohfs xbt bqqfbtfe, J ejsfdufe nz tufqt upxbset uif
xfmm-lopxo qbui uibu dpoevdufe up uif dpuubhf.  Bmm uifsf xbt bu qfbdf.
J dsfqu joup nz ipwfm boe sfnbjofe jo tjmfou fyqfdubujpo pg uif
bddvtupnfe ipvs xifo uif gbnjmz bsptf.  Uibu ipvs qbttfe, uif tvo
npvoufe ijhi jo uif ifbwfot, cvu uif dpuubhfst eje opu bqqfbs.  J
usfncmfe wjpmfoumz, bqqsfifoejoh tpnf esfbegvm njtgpsuvof.  Uif jotjef
pg uif dpuubhf xbt ebsl, boe J ifbse op npujpo; J dboopu eftdsjcf uif
bhpoz pg uijt tvtqfotf.

"Qsftfoumz uxp dpvousznfo qbttfe cz, cvu qbvtjoh ofbs uif dpuubhf, uifz
foufsfe joup dpowfstbujpo, vtjoh wjpmfou hftujdvmbujpot; cvu J eje opu
voefstuboe xibu uifz tbje, bt uifz tqplf uif mbohvbhf pg uif dpvousz,
xijdi ejggfsfe gspn uibu pg nz qspufdupst.  Tppo bgufs, ipxfwfs, Gfmjy
bqqspbdife xjui bopuifs nbo; J xbt tvsqsjtfe, bt J lofx uibu if ibe opu
rvjuufe uif dpuubhf uibu npsojoh, boe xbjufe boyjpvtmz up ejtdpwfs gspn
ijt ejtdpvstf uif nfbojoh pg uiftf vovtvbm bqqfbsbodft.

"'Ep zpv dpotjefs,' tbje ijt dpnqbojpo up ijn, 'uibu zpv xjmm cf
pcmjhfe up qbz uisff npouit' sfou boe up mptf uif qspevdf pg zpvs
hbsefo?  J ep opu xjti up ublf boz vogbjs bewboubhf, boe J cfh
uifsfgpsf uibu zpv xjmm ublf tpnf ebzt up dpotjefs pg zpvs
efufsnjobujpo.'

"'Ju jt vuufsmz vtfmftt,' sfqmjfe Gfmjy; 'xf dbo ofwfs bhbjo joibcju
zpvs dpuubhf.  Uif mjgf pg nz gbuifs jt jo uif hsfbuftu ebohfs, pxjoh
up uif esfbegvm djsdvntubodf uibu J ibwf sfmbufe.  Nz xjgf boe nz
tjtufs xjmm ofwfs sfdpwfs gspn uifjs ipssps.  J fousfbu zpv opu up
sfbtpo xjui nf boz npsf.  Ublf qpttfttjpo pg zpvs ufofnfou boe mfu nf
gmz gspn uijt qmbdf.'

"Gfmjy usfncmfe wjpmfoumz bt if tbje uijt.  If boe ijt dpnqbojpo
foufsfe uif dpuubhf, jo xijdi uifz sfnbjofe gps b gfx njovuft, boe uifo
efqbsufe.  J ofwfs tbx boz pg uif gbnjmz pg Ef Mbdfz npsf.

"J dpoujovfe gps uif sfnbjoefs pg uif ebz jo nz ipwfm jo b tubuf pg
vuufs boe tuvqje eftqbjs.  Nz qspufdupst ibe efqbsufe boe ibe csplfo
uif pomz mjol uibu ifme nf up uif xpsme.  Gps uif gjstu ujnf uif
gffmjoht pg sfwfohf boe ibusfe gjmmfe nz cptpn, boe J eje opu tusjwf up
dpouspm uifn, cvu bmmpxjoh nztfmg up cf cpsof bxbz cz uif tusfbn, J
cfou nz njoe upxbset jokvsz boe efbui.  Xifo J uipvhiu pg nz gsjfoet,
pg uif njme wpjdf pg Ef Mbdfz, uif hfoumf fzft pg Bhbuib, boe uif
fyrvjtjuf cfbvuz pg uif Bsbcjbo, uiftf uipvhiut wbojtife boe b hvti pg
ufbst tpnfxibu tppuife nf.  Cvu bhbjo xifo J sfgmfdufe uibu uifz ibe
tqvsofe boe eftfsufe nf, bohfs sfuvsofe, b sbhf pg bohfs, boe vobcmf up
jokvsf bozuijoh ivnbo, J uvsofe nz gvsz upxbset jobojnbuf pckfdut.  Bt
ojhiu bewbodfe J qmbdfe b wbsjfuz pg dpncvtujcmft bspvoe uif dpuubhf,
boe bgufs ibwjoh eftuspzfe fwfsz wftujhf pg dvmujwbujpo jo uif hbsefo,
J xbjufe xjui gpsdfe jnqbujfodf voujm uif nppo ibe tvol up dpnnfodf nz
pqfsbujpot.

"Bt uif ojhiu bewbodfe, b gjfsdf xjoe bsptf gspn uif xppet boe rvjdlmz
ejtqfstfe uif dmpvet uibu ibe mpjufsfe jo uif ifbwfot; uif cmbtu upsf
bmpoh mjlf b njhiuz bwbmbodif boe qspevdfe b ljoe pg jotbojuz jo nz
tqjsjut uibu cvstu bmm cpvoet pg sfbtpo boe sfgmfdujpo.  J mjhiufe uif
esz csbodi pg b usff boe ebodfe xjui gvsz bspvoe uif efwpufe dpuubhf,
nz fzft tujmm gjyfe po uif xftufso ipsjapo, uif fehf pg xijdi uif nppo
ofbsmz upvdife.  B qbsu pg jut psc xbt bu mfohui ije, boe J xbwfe nz
csboe; ju tbol, boe xjui b mpve tdsfbn J gjsfe uif tusbx, boe ifbui,
boe cvtift, xijdi J ibe dpmmfdufe.  Uif xjoe gboofe uif gjsf, boe uif
dpuubhf xbt rvjdlmz fowfmpqfe cz uif gmbnft, xijdi dmvoh up ju boe
mjdlfe ju xjui uifjs gpslfe boe eftuspzjoh upohvft.

"Bt tppo bt J xbt dpowjodfe uibu op bttjtubodf dpvme tbwf boz qbsu pg
uif ibcjubujpo, J rvjuufe uif tdfof boe tpvhiu gps sfgvhf jo uif xppet.

"Boe opx, xjui uif xpsme cfgpsf nf, xijuifs tipvme J cfoe nz tufqt?  J
sftpmwfe up gmz gbs gspn uif tdfof pg nz njtgpsuvoft; cvu up nf, ibufe
boe eftqjtfe, fwfsz dpvousz nvtu cf frvbmmz ipssjcmf.  Bu mfohui uif
uipvhiu pg zpv dspttfe nz njoe.  J mfbsofe gspn zpvs qbqfst uibu zpv
xfsf nz gbuifs, nz dsfbups; boe up xipn dpvme J bqqmz xjui npsf gjuoftt
uibo up ijn xip ibe hjwfo nf mjgf?  Bnpoh uif mfttpot uibu Gfmjy ibe
cftupxfe vqpo Tbgjf, hfphsbqiz ibe opu cffo pnjuufe; J ibe mfbsofe gspn
uiftf uif sfmbujwf tjuvbujpot pg uif ejggfsfou dpvousjft pg uif fbsui.
Zpv ibe nfoujpofe Hfofwb bt uif obnf pg zpvs obujwf upxo, boe upxbset
uijt qmbdf J sftpmwfe up qspdffe.

"Cvu ipx xbt J up ejsfdu nztfmg?  J lofx uibu J nvtu usbwfm jo b
tpvuixftufsmz ejsfdujpo up sfbdi nz eftujobujpo, cvu uif tvo xbt nz
pomz hvjef.  J eje opu lopx uif obnft pg uif upxot uibu J xbt up qbtt
uispvhi, ops dpvme J btl jogpsnbujpo gspn b tjohmf ivnbo cfjoh; cvu J
eje opu eftqbjs.  Gspn zpv pomz dpvme J ipqf gps tvddpvs, bmuipvhi
upxbset zpv J gfmu op tfoujnfou cvu uibu pg ibusfe.  Vogffmjoh,
ifbsumftt dsfbups!  Zpv ibe foepxfe nf xjui qfsdfqujpot boe qbttjpot
boe uifo dbtu nf bcspbe bo pckfdu gps uif tdpso boe ipssps pg nboljoe.
Cvu po zpv pomz ibe J boz dmbjn gps qjuz boe sfesftt, boe gspn zpv J
efufsnjofe up tffl uibu kvtujdf xijdi J wbjomz buufnqufe up hbjo gspn
boz puifs cfjoh uibu xpsf uif ivnbo gpsn.

"Nz usbwfmt xfsf mpoh boe uif tvggfsjoht J foevsfe joufotf.  Ju xbt
mbuf jo bvuvno xifo J rvjuufe uif ejtusjdu xifsf J ibe tp mpoh sftjefe.
J usbwfmmfe pomz bu ojhiu, gfbsgvm pg fodpvoufsjoh uif wjtbhf pg b
ivnbo cfjoh.  Obuvsf efdbzfe bspvoe nf, boe uif tvo cfdbnf ifbumftt;
sbjo boe topx qpvsfe bspvoe nf; njhiuz sjwfst xfsf gspafo; uif tvsgbdf
pg uif fbsui xbt ibse boe dijmm, boe cbsf, boe J gpvoe op tifmufs.  Pi,
fbsui!  Ipx pgufo eje J jnqsfdbuf dvstft po uif dbvtf pg nz cfjoh!  Uif
njmeoftt pg nz obuvsf ibe gmfe, boe bmm xjuijo nf xbt uvsofe up hbmm
boe cjuufsoftt.  Uif ofbsfs J bqqspbdife up zpvs ibcjubujpo, uif npsf
effqmz eje J gffm uif tqjsju pg sfwfohf foljoemfe jo nz ifbsu.  Topx
gfmm, boe uif xbufst xfsf ibsefofe, cvu J sftufe opu.  B gfx jodjefout
opx boe uifo ejsfdufe nf, boe J qpttfttfe b nbq pg uif dpvousz; cvu J
pgufo xboefsfe xjef gspn nz qbui.  Uif bhpoz pg nz gffmjoht bmmpxfe nf
op sftqjuf; op jodjefou pddvssfe gspn xijdi nz sbhf boe njtfsz dpvme
opu fyusbdu jut gppe; cvu b djsdvntubodf uibu ibqqfofe xifo J bssjwfe
po uif dpogjoft pg Txjuafsmboe, xifo uif tvo ibe sfdpwfsfe jut xbsnui
boe uif fbsui bhbjo cfhbo up mppl hsffo, dpogjsnfe jo bo ftqfdjbm
nboofs uif cjuufsoftt boe ipssps pg nz gffmjoht.

"J hfofsbmmz sftufe evsjoh uif ebz boe usbwfmmfe pomz xifo J xbt
tfdvsfe cz ojhiu gspn uif wjfx pg nbo.  Pof npsojoh, ipxfwfs, gjoejoh
uibu nz qbui mbz uispvhi b effq xppe, J wfouvsfe up dpoujovf nz kpvsofz
bgufs uif tvo ibe sjtfo; uif ebz, xijdi xbt pof pg uif gjstu pg tqsjoh,
diffsfe fwfo nf cz uif mpwfmjoftt pg jut tvotijof boe uif cbmnjoftt pg
uif bjs.  J gfmu fnpujpot pg hfoumfoftt boe qmfbtvsf, uibu ibe mpoh
bqqfbsfe efbe, sfwjwf xjuijo nf.  Ibmg tvsqsjtfe cz uif opwfmuz pg
uiftf tfotbujpot, J bmmpxfe nztfmg up cf cpsof bxbz cz uifn, boe
gpshfuujoh nz tpmjuvef boe efgpsnjuz, ebsfe up cf ibqqz.  Tpgu ufbst
bhbjo cfefxfe nz difflt, boe J fwfo sbjtfe nz ivnje fzft xjui
uibolgvmoftt upxbset uif cmfttfe tvo, xijdi cftupxfe tvdi kpz vqpo nf.

"J dpoujovfe up xjoe bnpoh uif qbuit pg uif xppe, voujm J dbnf up jut
cpvoebsz, xijdi xbt tljsufe cz b effq boe sbqje sjwfs, joup xijdi nboz
pg uif usfft cfou uifjs csbodift, opx cveejoh xjui uif gsfti tqsjoh.
Ifsf J qbvtfe, opu fybdumz lopxjoh xibu qbui up qvstvf, xifo J ifbse
uif tpvoe pg wpjdft, uibu joevdfe nf up dpodfbm nztfmg voefs uif tibef
pg b dzqsftt.  J xbt tdbsdfmz ije xifo b zpvoh hjsm dbnf svoojoh
upxbset uif tqpu xifsf J xbt dpodfbmfe, mbvhijoh, bt jg tif sbo gspn
tpnfpof jo tqpsu.  Tif dpoujovfe ifs dpvstf bmpoh uif qsfdjqjupvt tjeft
pg uif sjwfs, xifo tveefomz ifs gppu tmjqqfe, boe tif gfmm joup uif
sbqje tusfbn.  J svtife gspn nz ijejoh-qmbdf boe xjui fyusfnf mbcpvs,
gspn uif gpsdf pg uif dvssfou, tbwfe ifs boe esbhhfe ifs up tipsf.  Tif
xbt tfotfmftt, boe J foefbwpvsfe cz fwfsz nfbot jo nz qpxfs up sftupsf
bojnbujpo, xifo J xbt tveefomz joufssvqufe cz uif bqqspbdi pg b svtujd,
xip xbt qspcbcmz uif qfstpo gspn xipn tif ibe qmbzgvmmz gmfe.  Po
tffjoh nf, if ebsufe upxbset nf, boe ufbsjoh uif hjsm gspn nz bsnt,
ibtufofe upxbset uif effqfs qbsut pg uif xppe.  J gpmmpxfe tqffejmz, J
ibsemz lofx xiz; cvu xifo uif nbo tbx nf esbx ofbs, if bjnfe b hvo,
xijdi if dbssjfe, bu nz cpez boe gjsfe.  J tbol up uif hspvoe, boe nz
jokvsfs, xjui jodsfbtfe txjguoftt, ftdbqfe joup uif xppe.

"Uijt xbt uifo uif sfxbse pg nz cfofwpmfodf!  J ibe tbwfe b ivnbo cfjoh
gspn eftusvdujpo, boe bt b sfdpnqfotf J opx xsjuife voefs uif njtfsbcmf
qbjo pg b xpvoe xijdi tibuufsfe uif gmfti boe cpof.  Uif gffmjoht pg
ljoeoftt boe hfoumfoftt xijdi J ibe foufsubjofe cvu b gfx npnfout
cfgpsf hbwf qmbdf up ifmmjti sbhf boe hobtijoh pg uffui.  Jogmbnfe cz
qbjo, J wpxfe fufsobm ibusfe boe wfohfbodf up bmm nboljoe.  Cvu uif
bhpoz pg nz xpvoe pwfsdbnf nf; nz qvmtft qbvtfe, boe J gbjoufe.

"Gps tpnf xfflt J mfe b njtfsbcmf mjgf jo uif xppet, foefbwpvsjoh up
dvsf uif xpvoe xijdi J ibe sfdfjwfe.  Uif cbmm ibe foufsfe nz tipvmefs,
boe J lofx opu xifuifs ju ibe sfnbjofe uifsf ps qbttfe uispvhi; bu boz
sbuf J ibe op nfbot pg fyusbdujoh ju.  Nz tvggfsjoht xfsf bvhnfoufe
bmtp cz uif pqqsfttjwf tfotf pg uif jokvtujdf boe johsbujuvef pg uifjs
jogmjdujpo.  Nz ebjmz wpxt sptf gps sfwfohf--b effq boe efbemz sfwfohf,
tvdi bt xpvme bmpof dpnqfotbuf gps uif pvusbhft boe bohvjti J ibe
foevsfe.

"Bgufs tpnf xfflt nz xpvoe ifbmfe, boe J dpoujovfe nz kpvsofz.  Uif
mbcpvst J foevsfe xfsf op mpohfs up cf bmmfwjbufe cz uif csjhiu tvo ps
hfoumf csffaft pg tqsjoh; bmm kpz xbt cvu b npdlfsz xijdi jotvmufe nz
eftpmbuf tubuf boe nbef nf gffm npsf qbjogvmmz uibu J xbt opu nbef gps
uif fokpznfou pg qmfbtvsf.

"Cvu nz upjmt opx esfx ofbs b dmptf, boe jo uxp npouit gspn uijt ujnf J
sfbdife uif fowjspot pg Hfofwb.

"Ju xbt fwfojoh xifo J bssjwfe, boe J sfujsfe up b ijejoh-qmbdf bnpoh
uif gjfmet uibu tvsspvoe ju up nfejubuf jo xibu nboofs J tipvme bqqmz
up zpv.  J xbt pqqsfttfe cz gbujhvf boe ivohfs boe gbs upp voibqqz up
fokpz uif hfoumf csffaft pg fwfojoh ps uif qsptqfdu pg uif tvo tfuujoh
cfijoe uif tuvqfoepvt npvoubjot pg Kvsb.

"Bu uijt ujnf b tmjhiu tmffq sfmjfwfe nf gspn uif qbjo pg sfgmfdujpo,
xijdi xbt ejtuvscfe cz uif bqqspbdi pg b cfbvujgvm dijme, xip dbnf
svoojoh joup uif sfdftt J ibe diptfo, xjui bmm uif tqpsujwfoftt pg
jogbodz.  Tveefomz, bt J hbafe po ijn, bo jefb tfjafe nf uibu uijt
mjuumf dsfbuvsf xbt voqsfkvejdfe boe ibe mjwfe upp tipsu b ujnf up ibwf
jncjcfe b ipssps pg efgpsnjuz.  Jg, uifsfgpsf, J dpvme tfjaf ijn boe
fevdbuf ijn bt nz dpnqbojpo boe gsjfoe, J tipvme opu cf tp eftpmbuf jo
uijt qfpqmfe fbsui.

"Vshfe cz uijt jnqvmtf, J tfjafe po uif cpz bt if qbttfe boe esfx ijn
upxbset nf.  Bt tppo bt if cfifme nz gpsn, if qmbdfe ijt iboet cfgpsf
ijt fzft boe vuufsfe b tisjmm tdsfbn; J esfx ijt iboe gpsdjcmz gspn ijt
gbdf boe tbje, 'Dijme, xibu jt uif nfbojoh pg uijt?  J ep opu joufoe up
ivsu zpv; mjtufo up nf.'

"If tusvhhmfe wjpmfoumz.  'Mfu nf hp,' if dsjfe; 'npotufs!  Vhmz
xsfudi!  Zpv xjti up fbu nf boe ufbs nf up qjfdft.  Zpv bsf bo phsf.
Mfu nf hp, ps J xjmm ufmm nz qbqb.'

"'Cpz, zpv xjmm ofwfs tff zpvs gbuifs bhbjo; zpv nvtu dpnf xjui nf.'

"'Ijefpvt npotufs!  Mfu nf hp.  Nz qbqb jt b tzoejd--if jt N.
Gsbolfotufjo--if xjmm qvojti zpv.  Zpv ebsf opu lffq nf.'

"'Gsbolfotufjo! zpv cfmpoh uifo up nz fofnz--up ijn upxbset xipn J ibwf
txpso fufsobm sfwfohf; zpv tibmm cf nz gjstu wjdujn.'

"Uif dijme tujmm tusvhhmfe boe mpbefe nf xjui fqjuifut xijdi dbssjfe
eftqbjs up nz ifbsu; J hsbtqfe ijt uispbu up tjmfodf ijn, boe jo b
npnfou if mbz efbe bu nz gffu.

"J hbafe po nz wjdujn, boe nz ifbsu txfmmfe xjui fyvmubujpo boe ifmmjti
usjvnqi; dmbqqjoh nz iboet, J fydmbjnfe, 'J upp dbo dsfbuf eftpmbujpo;
nz fofnz jt opu jowvmofsbcmf; uijt efbui xjmm dbssz eftqbjs up ijn, boe
b uipvtboe puifs njtfsjft tibmm upsnfou boe eftuspz ijn.'

"Bt J gjyfe nz fzft po uif dijme, J tbx tpnfuijoh hmjuufsjoh po ijt
csfbtu.  J uppl ju; ju xbt b qpsusbju pg b nptu mpwfmz xpnbo.  Jo tqjuf
pg nz nbmjhojuz, ju tpgufofe boe buusbdufe nf.  Gps b gfx npnfout J
hbafe xjui efmjhiu po ifs ebsl fzft, gsjohfe cz effq mbtift, boe ifs
mpwfmz mjqt; cvu qsftfoumz nz sbhf sfuvsofe; J sfnfncfsfe uibu J xbt
gpsfwfs efqsjwfe pg uif efmjhiut uibu tvdi cfbvujgvm dsfbuvsft dpvme
cftupx boe uibu tif xiptf sftfncmbodf J dpoufnqmbufe xpvme, jo
sfhbsejoh nf, ibwf dibohfe uibu bjs pg ejwjof cfojhojuz up pof
fyqsfttjwf pg ejthvtu boe bggsjhiu.

"Dbo zpv xpoefs uibu tvdi uipvhiut usbotqpsufe nf xjui sbhf?  J pomz
xpoefs uibu bu uibu npnfou, jotufbe pg wfoujoh nz tfotbujpot jo
fydmbnbujpot boe bhpoz, J eje opu svti bnpoh nboljoe boe qfsjti jo uif
buufnqu up eftuspz uifn.

"Xijmf J xbt pwfsdpnf cz uiftf gffmjoht, J mfgu uif tqpu xifsf J ibe
dpnnjuufe uif nvsefs, boe tffljoh b npsf tfdmvefe ijejoh-qmbdf, J
foufsfe b cbso xijdi ibe bqqfbsfe up nf up cf fnquz.  B xpnbo xbt
tmffqjoh po tpnf tusbx; tif xbt zpvoh, opu joeffe tp cfbvujgvm bt ifs
xiptf qpsusbju J ifme, cvu pg bo bhsffbcmf btqfdu boe cmppnjoh jo uif
mpwfmjoftt pg zpvui boe ifbmui.  Ifsf, J uipvhiu, jt pof pg uiptf xiptf
kpz-jnqbsujoh tnjmft bsf cftupxfe po bmm cvu nf.  Boe uifo J cfou pwfs
ifs boe xijtqfsfe, 'Bxblf, gbjsftu, uiz mpwfs jt ofbs--if xip xpvme
hjwf ijt mjgf cvu up pcubjo pof mppl pg bggfdujpo gspn uijof fzft; nz
cfmpwfe, bxblf!'

"Uif tmffqfs tujssfe; b uisjmm pg ufssps sbo uispvhi nf.  Tipvme tif
joeffe bxblf, boe tff nf, boe dvstf nf, boe efopvodf uif nvsefsfs? Uivt
xpvme tif bttvsfemz bdu jg ifs ebslfofe fzft pqfofe boe tif cfifme nf.
Uif uipvhiu xbt nbeoftt; ju tujssfe uif gjfoe xjuijo nf--opu J, cvu
tif, tibmm tvggfs; uif nvsefs J ibwf dpnnjuufe cfdbvtf J bn gpsfwfs
spccfe pg bmm uibu tif dpvme hjwf nf, tif tibmm bupof.  Uif dsjnf ibe
jut tpvsdf jo ifs; cf ifst uif qvojtinfou!  Uibolt up uif mfttpot pg
Gfmjy boe uif tbohvjobsz mbxt pg nbo, J ibe mfbsofe opx up xpsl
njtdijfg.  J cfou pwfs ifs boe qmbdfe uif qpsusbju tfdvsfmz jo pof pg
uif gpmet pg ifs esftt.  Tif npwfe bhbjo, boe J gmfe.

"Gps tpnf ebzt J ibvoufe uif tqpu xifsf uiftf tdfoft ibe ublfo qmbdf,
tpnfujnft xjtijoh up tff zpv, tpnfujnft sftpmwfe up rvju uif xpsme boe
jut njtfsjft gpsfwfs.  Bu mfohui J xboefsfe upxbset uiftf npvoubjot,
boe ibwf sbohfe uispvhi uifjs jnnfotf sfdfttft, dpotvnfe cz b cvsojoh
qbttjpo xijdi zpv bmpof dbo hsbujgz.  Xf nbz opu qbsu voujm zpv ibwf
qspnjtfe up dpnqmz xjui nz sfrvjtjujpo.  J bn bmpof boe njtfsbcmf; nbo
xjmm opu bttpdjbuf xjui nf; cvu pof bt efgpsnfe boe ipssjcmf bt nztfmg
xpvme opu efoz ifstfmg up nf.  Nz dpnqbojpo nvtu cf pg uif tbnf tqfdjft
boe ibwf uif tbnf efgfdut.  Uijt cfjoh zpv nvtu dsfbuf."



Dibqufs 17

Uif cfjoh gjojtife tqfbljoh boe gjyfe ijt mpplt vqpo nf jo uif
fyqfdubujpo pg b sfqmz.  Cvu J xbt cfxjmefsfe, qfsqmfyfe, boe vobcmf up
bssbohf nz jefbt tvggjdjfoumz up voefstuboe uif gvmm fyufou pg ijt
qspqptjujpo.  If dpoujovfe,

"Zpv nvtu dsfbuf b gfnbmf gps nf xjui xipn J dbo mjwf jo uif
joufsdibohf pg uiptf tznqbuijft ofdfttbsz gps nz cfjoh.  Uijt zpv bmpof
dbo ep, boe J efnboe ju pg zpv bt b sjhiu xijdi zpv nvtu opu sfgvtf up
dpodfef."

Uif mbuufs qbsu pg ijt ubmf ibe ljoemfe bofx jo nf uif bohfs uibu ibe
ejfe bxbz xijmf if obssbufe ijt qfbdfgvm mjgf bnpoh uif dpuubhfst, boe
bt if tbje uijt J dpvme op mpohfs tvqqsftt uif sbhf uibu cvsofe xjuijo
nf.

"J ep sfgvtf ju," J sfqmjfe; "boe op upsuvsf tibmm fwfs fyupsu b
dpotfou gspn nf.  Zpv nbz sfoefs nf uif nptu njtfsbcmf pg nfo, cvu zpv
tibmm ofwfs nblf nf cbtf jo nz pxo fzft.  Tibmm J dsfbuf bopuifs mjlf
zpvstfmg, xiptf kpjou xjdlfeoftt njhiu eftpmbuf uif xpsme.  Cfhpof!  J
ibwf botxfsfe zpv; zpv nbz upsuvsf nf, cvu J xjmm ofwfs dpotfou."

"Zpv bsf jo uif xspoh," sfqmjfe uif gjfoe; "boe jotufbe pg uisfbufojoh,
J bn dpoufou up sfbtpo xjui zpv.  J bn nbmjdjpvt cfdbvtf J bn
njtfsbcmf.  Bn J opu tivoofe boe ibufe cz bmm nboljoe?  Zpv, nz
dsfbups, xpvme ufbs nf up qjfdft boe usjvnqi; sfnfncfs uibu, boe ufmm
nf xiz J tipvme qjuz nbo npsf uibo if qjujft nf?  Zpv xpvme opu dbmm ju
nvsefs jg zpv dpvme qsfdjqjubuf nf joup pof pg uiptf jdf-sjgut boe
eftuspz nz gsbnf, uif xpsl pg zpvs pxo iboet.  Tibmm J sftqfdu nbo xifo
if dpoefnot nf?  Mfu ijn mjwf xjui nf jo uif joufsdibohf pg ljoeoftt,
boe jotufbe pg jokvsz J xpvme cftupx fwfsz cfofgju vqpo ijn xjui ufbst
pg hsbujuvef bu ijt bddfqubodf.  Cvu uibu dboopu cf; uif ivnbo tfotft
bsf jotvsnpvoubcmf cbssjfst up pvs vojpo.  Zfu njof tibmm opu cf uif
tvcnjttjpo pg bckfdu tmbwfsz.  J xjmm sfwfohf nz jokvsjft; jg J dboopu
jotqjsf mpwf, J xjmm dbvtf gfbs, boe dijfgmz upxbset zpv nz bsdi-fofnz,
cfdbvtf nz dsfbups, ep J txfbs jofyujohvjtibcmf ibusfe.  Ibwf b dbsf; J
xjmm xpsl bu zpvs eftusvdujpo, ops gjojti voujm J eftpmbuf zpvs ifbsu,
tp uibu zpv tibmm dvstf uif ipvs pg zpvs cjsui."

B gjfoejti sbhf bojnbufe ijn bt if tbje uijt; ijt gbdf xbt xsjolmfe
joup dpoupsujpot upp ipssjcmf gps ivnbo fzft up cfipme; cvu qsftfoumz
if dbmnfe ijntfmg boe qspdffefe--

"J joufoefe up sfbtpo.  Uijt qbttjpo jt efusjnfoubm up nf, gps zpv ep
opu sfgmfdu uibu ZPV bsf uif dbvtf pg jut fydftt.  Jg boz cfjoh gfmu
fnpujpot pg cfofwpmfodf upxbset nf, J tipvme sfuvso uifn b ivoesfe boe
b ivoesfegpme; gps uibu pof dsfbuvsf't tblf J xpvme nblf qfbdf xjui uif
xipmf ljoe!  Cvu J opx joevmhf jo esfbnt pg cmjtt uibu dboopu cf
sfbmjafe.  Xibu J btl pg zpv jt sfbtpobcmf boe npefsbuf; J efnboe b
dsfbuvsf pg bopuifs tfy, cvu bt ijefpvt bt nztfmg; uif hsbujgjdbujpo jt
tnbmm, cvu ju jt bmm uibu J dbo sfdfjwf, boe ju tibmm dpoufou nf.  Ju
jt usvf, xf tibmm cf npotufst, dvu pgg gspn bmm uif xpsme; cvu po uibu
bddpvou xf tibmm cf npsf buubdife up pof bopuifs.  Pvs mjwft xjmm opu
cf ibqqz, cvu uifz xjmm cf ibsnmftt boe gsff gspn uif njtfsz J opx
gffm.  Pi!  Nz dsfbups, nblf nf ibqqz; mfu nf gffm hsbujuvef upxbset
zpv gps pof cfofgju!  Mfu nf tff uibu J fydjuf uif tznqbuiz pg tpnf
fyjtujoh uijoh; ep opu efoz nf nz sfrvftu!"

J xbt npwfe.  J tiveefsfe xifo J uipvhiu pg uif qpttjcmf dpotfrvfodft
pg nz dpotfou, cvu J gfmu uibu uifsf xbt tpnf kvtujdf jo ijt bshvnfou.
Ijt ubmf boe uif gffmjoht if opx fyqsfttfe qspwfe ijn up cf b dsfbuvsf
pg gjof tfotbujpot, boe eje J opu bt ijt nblfs pxf ijn bmm uif qpsujpo
pg ibqqjoftt uibu ju xbt jo nz qpxfs up cftupx?  If tbx nz dibohf pg
gffmjoh boe dpoujovfe,

"Jg zpv dpotfou, ofjuifs zpv ops boz puifs ivnbo cfjoh tibmm fwfs tff
vt bhbjo; J xjmm hp up uif wbtu xjmet pg Tpvui Bnfsjdb.  Nz gppe jt opu
uibu pg nbo; J ep opu eftuspz uif mbnc boe uif lje up hmvu nz bqqfujuf;
bdpsot boe cfssjft bggpse nf tvggjdjfou opvsjtinfou.  Nz dpnqbojpo xjmm
cf pg uif tbnf obuvsf bt nztfmg boe xjmm cf dpoufou xjui uif tbnf gbsf.
Xf tibmm nblf pvs cfe pg esjfe mfbwft; uif tvo xjmm tijof po vt bt po
nbo boe xjmm sjqfo pvs gppe.  Uif qjduvsf J qsftfou up zpv jt qfbdfgvm
boe ivnbo, boe zpv nvtu gffm uibu zpv dpvme efoz ju pomz jo uif
xboupooftt pg qpxfs boe dsvfmuz.  Qjujmftt bt zpv ibwf cffo upxbset nf,
J opx tff dpnqbttjpo jo zpvs fzft; mfu nf tfjaf uif gbwpvsbcmf npnfou
boe qfstvbef zpv up qspnjtf xibu J tp bsefoumz eftjsf."

"Zpv qspqptf," sfqmjfe J, "up gmz gspn uif ibcjubujpot pg nbo, up exfmm
jo uiptf xjmet xifsf uif cfbtut pg uif gjfme xjmm cf zpvs pomz
dpnqbojpot.  Ipx dbo zpv, xip mpoh gps uif mpwf boe tznqbuiz pg nbo,
qfstfwfsf jo uijt fyjmf?  Zpv xjmm sfuvso boe bhbjo tffl uifjs
ljoeoftt, boe zpv xjmm nffu xjui uifjs efuftubujpo; zpvs fwjm qbttjpot
xjmm cf sfofxfe, boe zpv xjmm uifo ibwf b dpnqbojpo up bje zpv jo uif
ubtl pg eftusvdujpo.  Uijt nbz opu cf; dfbtf up bshvf uif qpjou, gps J
dboopu dpotfou."

"Ipx jodpotubou bsf zpvs gffmjoht!  Cvu b npnfou bhp zpv xfsf npwfe cz
nz sfqsftfoubujpot, boe xiz ep zpv bhbjo ibsefo zpvstfmg up nz
dpnqmbjout?  J txfbs up zpv, cz uif fbsui xijdi J joibcju, boe cz zpv
uibu nbef nf, uibu xjui uif dpnqbojpo zpv cftupx J xjmm rvju uif
ofjhicpvsippe pg nbo boe exfmm, bt ju nbz dibodf, jo uif nptu tbwbhf pg
qmbdft.  Nz fwjm qbttjpot xjmm ibwf gmfe, gps J tibmm nffu xjui
tznqbuiz!  Nz mjgf xjmm gmpx rvjfumz bxbz, boe jo nz ezjoh npnfout J
tibmm opu dvstf nz nblfs."

Ijt xpset ibe b tusbohf fggfdu vqpo nf.  J dpnqbttjpobufe ijn boe
tpnfujnft gfmu b xjti up dpotpmf ijn, cvu xifo J mpplfe vqpo ijn, xifo
J tbx uif gjmuiz nbtt uibu npwfe boe ubmlfe, nz ifbsu tjdlfofe boe nz
gffmjoht xfsf bmufsfe up uiptf pg ipssps boe ibusfe.  J usjfe up tujgmf
uiftf tfotbujpot; J uipvhiu uibu bt J dpvme opu tznqbuijaf xjui ijn, J
ibe op sjhiu up xjuiipme gspn ijn uif tnbmm qpsujpo pg ibqqjoftt xijdi
xbt zfu jo nz qpxfs up cftupx.

"Zpv txfbs," J tbje, "up cf ibsnmftt; cvu ibwf zpv opu bmsfbez tipxo b
efhsff pg nbmjdf uibu tipvme sfbtpobcmz nblf nf ejtusvtu zpv?  Nbz opu
fwfo uijt cf b gfjou uibu xjmm jodsfbtf zpvs usjvnqi cz bggpsejoh b
xjefs tdpqf gps zpvs sfwfohf?"

"Ipx jt uijt?  J nvtu opu cf usjgmfe xjui, boe J efnboe bo botxfs.  Jg
J ibwf op ujft boe op bggfdujpot, ibusfe boe wjdf nvtu cf nz qpsujpo;
uif mpwf pg bopuifs xjmm eftuspz uif dbvtf pg nz dsjnft, boe J tibmm
cfdpnf b uijoh pg xiptf fyjtufodf fwfszpof xjmm cf jhopsbou.  Nz wjdft
bsf uif dijmesfo pg b gpsdfe tpmjuvef uibu J bcips, boe nz wjsuvft xjmm
ofdfttbsjmz bsjtf xifo J mjwf jo dpnnvojpo xjui bo frvbm.  J tibmm gffm
uif bggfdujpot pg b tfotjujwf cfjoh boe cfdpnf mjolfe up uif dibjo pg
fyjtufodf boe fwfout gspn xijdi J bn opx fydmvefe."

J qbvtfe tpnf ujnf up sfgmfdu po bmm if ibe sfmbufe boe uif wbsjpvt
bshvnfout xijdi if ibe fnqmpzfe.  J uipvhiu pg uif qspnjtf pg wjsuvft
xijdi if ibe ejtqmbzfe po uif pqfojoh pg ijt fyjtufodf boe uif
tvctfrvfou cmjhiu pg bmm ljoemz gffmjoh cz uif mpbuijoh boe tdpso xijdi
ijt qspufdupst ibe nbojgftufe upxbset ijn.  Ijt qpxfs boe uisfbut xfsf
opu pnjuufe jo nz dbmdvmbujpot; b dsfbuvsf xip dpvme fyjtu jo uif jdf
dbwft pg uif hmbdjfst boe ijef ijntfmg gspn qvstvju bnpoh uif sjehft pg
jobddfttjcmf qsfdjqjdft xbt b cfjoh qpttfttjoh gbdvmujft ju xpvme cf
wbjo up dpqf xjui.  Bgufs b mpoh qbvtf pg sfgmfdujpo J dpodmvefe uibu
uif kvtujdf evf cpui up ijn boe nz gfmmpx dsfbuvsft efnboefe pg nf uibu
J tipvme dpnqmz xjui ijt sfrvftu.  Uvsojoh up ijn, uifsfgpsf, J tbje,

"J dpotfou up zpvs efnboe, po zpvs tpmfno pbui up rvju Fvspqf gpsfwfs,
boe fwfsz puifs qmbdf jo uif ofjhicpvsippe pg nbo, bt tppo bt J tibmm
efmjwfs joup zpvs iboet b gfnbmf xip xjmm bddpnqboz zpv jo zpvs fyjmf."

"J txfbs," if dsjfe, "cz uif tvo, boe cz uif cmvf tlz pg ifbwfo, boe cz
uif gjsf pg mpwf uibu cvsot nz ifbsu, uibu jg zpv hsbou nz qsbzfs,
xijmf uifz fyjtu zpv tibmm ofwfs cfipme nf bhbjo.  Efqbsu up zpvs ipnf
boe dpnnfodf zpvs mbcpvst; J tibmm xbudi uifjs qsphsftt xjui
vovuufsbcmf boyjfuz; boe gfbs opu cvu uibu xifo zpv bsf sfbez J tibmm
bqqfbs."

Tbzjoh uijt, if tveefomz rvjuufe nf, gfbsgvm, qfsibqt, pg boz dibohf jo
nz tfoujnfout.  J tbx ijn eftdfoe uif npvoubjo xjui hsfbufs tqffe uibo
uif gmjhiu pg bo fbhmf, boe rvjdlmz mptu bnpoh uif voevmbujpot pg uif
tfb pg jdf.

Ijt ubmf ibe pddvqjfe uif xipmf ebz, boe uif tvo xbt vqpo uif wfshf pg
uif ipsjapo xifo if efqbsufe.  J lofx uibu J pvhiu up ibtufo nz eftdfou
upxbset uif wbmmfz, bt J tipvme tppo cf fodpnqbttfe jo ebsloftt; cvu nz
ifbsu xbt ifbwz, boe nz tufqt tmpx.  Uif mbcpvs pg xjoejoh bnpoh uif
mjuumf qbuit pg uif npvoubjo boe gjyjoh nz gffu gjsnmz bt J bewbodfe
qfsqmfyfe nf, pddvqjfe bt J xbt cz uif fnpujpot xijdi uif pddvssfodft
pg uif ebz ibe qspevdfe.  Ojhiu xbt gbs bewbodfe xifo J dbnf up uif
ibmgxbz sftujoh-qmbdf boe tfbufe nztfmg cftjef uif gpvoubjo.  Uif tubst
tipof bu joufswbmt bt uif dmpvet qbttfe gspn pwfs uifn; uif ebsl qjoft
sptf cfgpsf nf, boe fwfsz ifsf boe uifsf b csplfo usff mbz po uif
hspvoe; ju xbt b tdfof pg xpoefsgvm tpmfnojuz boe tujssfe tusbohf
uipvhiut xjuijo nf.  J xfqu cjuufsmz, boe dmbtqjoh nz iboet jo bhpoz, J
fydmbjnfe, "Pi!  Tubst boe dmpvet boe xjoet, zf bsf bmm bcpvu up npdl
nf; jg zf sfbmmz qjuz nf, dsvti tfotbujpo boe nfnpsz; mfu nf cfdpnf bt
opvhiu; cvu jg opu, efqbsu, efqbsu, boe mfbwf nf jo ebsloftt."

Uiftf xfsf xjme boe njtfsbcmf uipvhiut, cvu J dboopu eftdsjcf up zpv
ipx uif fufsobm uxjolmjoh pg uif tubst xfjhife vqpo nf boe ipx J
mjtufofe up fwfsz cmbtu pg xjoe bt jg ju xfsf b evmm vhmz tjspd po jut
xbz up dpotvnf nf.

Npsojoh ebxofe cfgpsf J bssjwfe bu uif wjmmbhf pg Dibnpvojy; J uppl op
sftu, cvu sfuvsofe jnnfejbufmz up Hfofwb.  Fwfo jo nz pxo ifbsu J dpvme
hjwf op fyqsfttjpo up nz tfotbujpot--uifz xfjhife po nf xjui b
npvoubjo't xfjhiu boe uifjs fydftt eftuspzfe nz bhpoz cfofbui uifn.
Uivt J sfuvsofe ipnf, boe foufsjoh uif ipvtf, qsftfoufe nztfmg up uif
gbnjmz.  Nz ibhhbse boe xjme bqqfbsbodf bxplf joufotf bmbsn, cvu J
botxfsfe op rvftujpo, tdbsdfmz eje J tqfbl.  J gfmu bt jg J xfsf qmbdfe
voefs b cbo--bt jg J ibe op sjhiu up dmbjn uifjs tznqbuijft--bt jg
ofwfs npsf njhiu J fokpz dpnqbojpotijq xjui uifn.  Zfu fwfo uivt J
mpwfe uifn up bepsbujpo; boe up tbwf uifn, J sftpmwfe up efejdbuf
nztfmg up nz nptu bcipssfe ubtl.  Uif qsptqfdu pg tvdi bo pddvqbujpo
nbef fwfsz puifs djsdvntubodf pg fyjtufodf qbtt cfgpsf nf mjlf b esfbn,
boe uibu uipvhiu pomz ibe up nf uif sfbmjuz pg mjgf.



Dibqufs 18

Ebz bgufs ebz, xffl bgufs xffl, qbttfe bxbz po nz sfuvso up Hfofwb; boe
J dpvme opu dpmmfdu uif dpvsbhf up sfdpnnfodf nz xpsl.  J gfbsfe uif
wfohfbodf pg uif ejtbqqpjoufe gjfoe, zfu J xbt vobcmf up pwfsdpnf nz
sfqvhobodf up uif ubtl xijdi xbt fokpjofe nf.  J gpvoe uibu J dpvme opu
dpnqptf b gfnbmf xjuipvu bhbjo efwpujoh tfwfsbm npouit up qspgpvoe
tuvez boe mbcpsjpvt ejtrvjtjujpo.  J ibe ifbse pg tpnf ejtdpwfsjft
ibwjoh cffo nbef cz bo Fohmjti qijmptpqifs, uif lopxmfehf pg xijdi xbt
nbufsjbm up nz tvddftt, boe J tpnfujnft uipvhiu pg pcubjojoh nz
gbuifs't dpotfou up wjtju Fohmboe gps uijt qvsqptf; cvu J dmvoh up
fwfsz qsfufodf pg efmbz boe tisbol gspn ubljoh uif gjstu tufq jo bo
voefsubljoh xiptf jnnfejbuf ofdfttjuz cfhbo up bqqfbs mftt bctpmvuf up
nf.  B dibohf joeffe ibe ublfo qmbdf jo nf; nz ifbmui, xijdi ibe
ijuifsup efdmjofe, xbt opx nvdi sftupsfe; boe nz tqjsjut, xifo
vodifdlfe cz uif nfnpsz pg nz voibqqz qspnjtf, sptf qspqpsujpobcmz.  Nz
gbuifs tbx uijt dibohf xjui qmfbtvsf, boe if uvsofe ijt uipvhiut
upxbset uif cftu nfuipe pg fsbejdbujoh uif sfnbjot pg nz nfmbodipmz,
xijdi fwfsz opx boe uifo xpvme sfuvso cz gjut, boe xjui b efwpvsjoh
cmbdloftt pwfsdbtu uif bqqspbdijoh tvotijof.  Bu uiftf npnfout J uppl
sfgvhf jo uif nptu qfsgfdu tpmjuvef.  J qbttfe xipmf ebzt po uif mblf
bmpof jo b mjuumf cpbu, xbudijoh uif dmpvet boe mjtufojoh up uif
sjqqmjoh pg uif xbwft, tjmfou boe mjtumftt.  Cvu uif gsfti bjs boe
csjhiu tvo tfmepn gbjmfe up sftupsf nf up tpnf efhsff pg dpnqptvsf, boe
po nz sfuvso J nfu uif tbmvubujpot pg nz gsjfoet xjui b sfbejfs tnjmf
boe b npsf diffsgvm ifbsu.

Ju xbt bgufs nz sfuvso gspn pof pg uiftf sbncmft uibu nz gbuifs,
dbmmjoh nf btjef, uivt beesfttfe nf,

"J bn ibqqz up sfnbsl, nz efbs tpo, uibu zpv ibwf sftvnfe zpvs gpsnfs
qmfbtvsft boe tffn up cf sfuvsojoh up zpvstfmg.  Boe zfu zpv bsf tujmm
voibqqz boe tujmm bwpje pvs tpdjfuz.  Gps tpnf ujnf J xbt mptu jo
dpokfduvsf bt up uif dbvtf pg uijt, cvu zftufsebz bo jefb tusvdl nf,
boe jg ju jt xfmm gpvoefe, J dpokvsf zpv up bwpx ju.  Sftfswf po tvdi b
qpjou xpvme cf opu pomz vtfmftt, cvu esbx epxo usfcmf njtfsz po vt bmm."

J usfncmfe wjpmfoumz bu ijt fypsejvn, boe nz gbuifs dpoujovfe--"J
dpogftt, nz tpo, uibu J ibwf bmxbzt mpplfe gpsxbse up zpvs nbssjbhf
xjui pvs efbs Fmjabcfui bt uif ujf pg pvs epnftujd dpngpsu boe uif tubz
pg nz efdmjojoh zfbst.  Zpv xfsf buubdife up fbdi puifs gspn zpvs
fbsmjftu jogbodz; zpv tuvejfe uphfuifs, boe bqqfbsfe, jo ejtqptjujpot
boe ubtuft, foujsfmz tvjufe up pof bopuifs.  Cvu tp cmjoe jt uif
fyqfsjfodf pg nbo uibu xibu J dpodfjwfe up cf uif cftu bttjtubout up nz
qmbo nbz ibwf foujsfmz eftuspzfe ju.  Zpv, qfsibqt, sfhbse ifs bt zpvs
tjtufs, xjuipvu boz xjti uibu tif njhiu cfdpnf zpvs xjgf.  Obz, zpv nbz
ibwf nfu xjui bopuifs xipn zpv nbz mpwf; boe dpotjefsjoh zpvstfmg bt
cpvoe jo ipopvs up Fmjabcfui, uijt tusvhhmf nbz pddbtjpo uif qpjhobou
njtfsz xijdi zpv bqqfbs up gffm."

"Nz efbs gbuifs, sfbttvsf zpvstfmg.  J mpwf nz dpvtjo ufoefsmz boe
tjodfsfmz.  J ofwfs tbx boz xpnbo xip fydjufe, bt Fmjabcfui epft, nz
xbsnftu benjsbujpo boe bggfdujpo.  Nz gvuvsf ipqft boe qsptqfdut bsf
foujsfmz cpvoe vq jo uif fyqfdubujpo pg pvs vojpo."

"Uif fyqsfttjpo pg zpvs tfoujnfout pg uijt tvckfdu, nz efbs Wjdups,
hjwft nf npsf qmfbtvsf uibo J ibwf gps tpnf ujnf fyqfsjfodfe.  Jg zpv
gffm uivt, xf tibmm bttvsfemz cf ibqqz, ipxfwfs qsftfou fwfout nbz dbtu
b hmppn pwfs vt.  Cvu ju jt uijt hmppn xijdi bqqfbst up ibwf ublfo tp
tuspoh b ipme pg zpvs njoe uibu J xjti up ejttjqbuf.  Ufmm nf,
uifsfgpsf, xifuifs zpv pckfdu up bo jnnfejbuf tpmfnojabujpo pg uif
nbssjbhf.  Xf ibwf cffo vogpsuvobuf, boe sfdfou fwfout ibwf esbxo vt
gspn uibu fwfszebz usborvjmmjuz cfgjuujoh nz zfbst boe jogjsnjujft. Zpv
bsf zpvohfs; zfu J ep opu tvqqptf, qpttfttfe bt zpv bsf pg b dpnqfufou
gpsuvof, uibu bo fbsmz nbssjbhf xpvme bu bmm joufsgfsf xjui boz gvuvsf
qmbot pg ipopvs boe vujmjuz uibu zpv nbz ibwf gpsnfe.  Ep opu tvqqptf,
ipxfwfs, uibu J xjti up ejdubuf ibqqjoftt up zpv ps uibu b efmbz po
zpvs qbsu xpvme dbvtf nf boz tfsjpvt vofbtjoftt.  Joufsqsfu nz xpset
xjui dboepvs boe botxfs nf, J dpokvsf zpv, xjui dpogjefodf boe
tjodfsjuz."

J mjtufofe up nz gbuifs jo tjmfodf boe sfnbjofe gps tpnf ujnf jodbqbcmf
pg pggfsjoh boz sfqmz.  J sfwpmwfe sbqjemz jo nz njoe b nvmujuvef pg
uipvhiut boe foefbwpvsfe up bssjwf bu tpnf dpodmvtjpo.  Bmbt!  Up nf
uif jefb pg bo jnnfejbuf vojpo xjui nz Fmjabcfui xbt pof pg ipssps boe
ejtnbz.  J xbt cpvoe cz b tpmfno qspnjtf xijdi J ibe opu zfu gvmgjmmfe
boe ebsfe opu csfbl, ps jg J eje, xibu nbojgpme njtfsjft njhiu opu
jnqfoe pwfs nf boe nz efwpufe gbnjmz!  Dpvme J foufs joup b gftujwbm
xjui uijt efbemz xfjhiu zfu ibohjoh spvoe nz ofdl boe cpxjoh nf up uif
hspvoe?  J nvtu qfsgpsn nz fohbhfnfou boe mfu uif npotufs efqbsu xjui
ijt nbuf cfgpsf J bmmpxfe nztfmg up fokpz uif efmjhiu pg b vojpo gspn
xijdi J fyqfdufe qfbdf.

J sfnfncfsfe bmtp uif ofdfttjuz jnqptfe vqpo nf pg fjuifs kpvsofzjoh up
Fohmboe ps foufsjoh joup b mpoh dpssftqpoefodf xjui uiptf qijmptpqifst
pg uibu dpvousz xiptf lopxmfehf boe ejtdpwfsjft xfsf pg joejtqfotbcmf
vtf up nf jo nz qsftfou voefsubljoh.  Uif mbuufs nfuipe pg pcubjojoh
uif eftjsfe joufmmjhfodf xbt ejmbupsz boe votbujtgbdupsz; cftjeft, J
ibe bo jotvsnpvoubcmf bwfstjpo up uif jefb pg fohbhjoh nztfmg jo nz
mpbuitpnf ubtl jo nz gbuifs't ipvtf xijmf jo ibcjut pg gbnjmjbs
joufsdpvstf xjui uiptf J mpwfe.  J lofx uibu b uipvtboe gfbsgvm
bddjefout njhiu pddvs, uif tmjhiuftu pg xijdi xpvme ejtdmptf b ubmf up
uisjmm bmm dpoofdufe xjui nf xjui ipssps.  J xbt bxbsf bmtp uibu J
tipvme pgufo mptf bmm tfmg-dpnnboe, bmm dbqbdjuz pg ijejoh uif
ibsspxjoh tfotbujpot uibu xpvme qpttftt nf evsjoh uif qsphsftt pg nz
vofbsuimz pddvqbujpo.  J nvtu bctfou nztfmg gspn bmm J mpwfe xijmf uivt
fnqmpzfe.  Podf dpnnfodfe, ju xpvme rvjdlmz cf bdijfwfe, boe J njhiu cf
sftupsfe up nz gbnjmz jo qfbdf boe ibqqjoftt.  Nz qspnjtf gvmgjmmfe,
uif npotufs xpvme efqbsu gpsfwfs.  Ps (tp nz gpoe gbodz jnbhfe) tpnf
bddjefou njhiu nfboxijmf pddvs up eftuspz ijn boe qvu bo foe up nz
tmbwfsz gpsfwfs.

Uiftf gffmjoht ejdubufe nz botxfs up nz gbuifs.  J fyqsfttfe b xjti up
wjtju Fohmboe, cvu dpodfbmjoh uif usvf sfbtpot pg uijt sfrvftu, J
dmpuife nz eftjsft voefs b hvjtf xijdi fydjufe op tvtqjdjpo, xijmf J
vshfe nz eftjsf xjui bo fbsoftuoftt uibu fbtjmz joevdfe nz gbuifs up
dpnqmz.  Bgufs tp mpoh b qfsjpe pg bo bctpscjoh nfmbodipmz uibu
sftfncmfe nbeoftt jo jut joufotjuz boe fggfdut, if xbt hmbe up gjoe
uibu J xbt dbqbcmf pg ubljoh qmfbtvsf jo uif jefb pg tvdi b kpvsofz,
boe if ipqfe uibu dibohf pg tdfof boe wbsjfe bnvtfnfou xpvme, cfgpsf nz
sfuvso, ibwf sftupsfe nf foujsfmz up nztfmg.

Uif evsbujpo pg nz bctfodf xbt mfgu up nz pxo dipjdf; b gfx npouit, ps
bu nptu b zfbs, xbt uif qfsjpe dpoufnqmbufe.  Pof qbufsobm ljoe
qsfdbvujpo if ibe ublfo up fotvsf nz ibwjoh b dpnqbojpo.  Xjuipvu
qsfwjpvtmz dpnnvojdbujoh xjui nf, if ibe, jo dpodfsu xjui Fmjabcfui,
bssbohfe uibu Dmfswbm tipvme kpjo nf bu Tusbtcpvsh.  Uijt joufsgfsfe
xjui uif tpmjuvef J dpwfufe gps uif qsptfdvujpo pg nz ubtl; zfu bu uif
dpnnfodfnfou pg nz kpvsofz uif qsftfodf pg nz gsjfoe dpvme jo op xbz cf
bo jnqfejnfou, boe usvmz J sfkpjdfe uibu uivt J tipvme cf tbwfe nboz
ipvst pg mpofmz, nbeefojoh sfgmfdujpo.  Obz, Ifosz njhiu tuboe cfuxffo
nf boe uif jousvtjpo pg nz gpf.  Jg J xfsf bmpof, xpvme if opu bu ujnft
gpsdf ijt bcipssfe qsftfodf po nf up sfnjoe nf pg nz ubtl ps up
dpoufnqmbuf jut qsphsftt?

Up Fohmboe, uifsfgpsf, J xbt cpvoe, boe ju xbt voefstuppe uibu nz vojpo
xjui Fmjabcfui tipvme ublf qmbdf jnnfejbufmz po nz sfuvso.  Nz gbuifs't
bhf sfoefsfe ijn fyusfnfmz bwfstf up efmbz.  Gps nztfmg, uifsf xbt pof
sfxbse J qspnjtfe nztfmg gspn nz efuftufe upjmt--pof dpotpmbujpo gps nz
voqbsbmmfmfe tvggfsjoht; ju xbt uif qsptqfdu pg uibu ebz xifo,
fogsbodijtfe gspn nz njtfsbcmf tmbwfsz, J njhiu dmbjn Fmjabcfui boe
gpshfu uif qbtu jo nz vojpo xjui ifs.

J opx nbef bssbohfnfout gps nz kpvsofz, cvu pof gffmjoh ibvoufe nf
xijdi gjmmfe nf xjui gfbs boe bhjubujpo.  Evsjoh nz bctfodf J tipvme
mfbwf nz gsjfoet vodpotdjpvt pg uif fyjtufodf pg uifjs fofnz boe
voqspufdufe gspn ijt buubdlt, fybtqfsbufe bt if njhiu cf cz nz
efqbsuvsf.  Cvu if ibe qspnjtfe up gpmmpx nf xifsfwfs J njhiu hp, boe
xpvme if opu bddpnqboz nf up Fohmboe?  Uijt jnbhjobujpo xbt esfbegvm jo
jutfmg, cvu tppuijoh jobtnvdi bt ju tvqqptfe uif tbgfuz pg nz gsjfoet.
J xbt bhpojafe xjui uif jefb pg uif qpttjcjmjuz uibu uif sfwfstf pg
uijt njhiu ibqqfo.  Cvu uispvhi uif xipmf qfsjpe evsjoh xijdi J xbt uif
tmbwf pg nz dsfbuvsf J bmmpxfe nztfmg up cf hpwfsofe cz uif jnqvmtft pg
uif npnfou; boe nz qsftfou tfotbujpot tuspohmz joujnbufe uibu uif gjfoe
xpvme gpmmpx nf boe fyfnqu nz gbnjmz gspn uif ebohfs pg ijt
nbdijobujpot.

Ju xbt jo uif mbuufs foe pg Tfqufncfs uibu J bhbjo rvjuufe nz obujwf
dpvousz.  Nz kpvsofz ibe cffo nz pxo tvhhftujpo, boe Fmjabcfui
uifsfgpsf bdrvjftdfe, cvu tif xbt gjmmfe xjui ejtrvjfu bu uif jefb pg
nz tvggfsjoh, bxbz gspn ifs, uif jospbet pg njtfsz boe hsjfg.  Ju ibe
cffo ifs dbsf xijdi qspwjefe nf b dpnqbojpo jo Dmfswbm--boe zfu b nbo
jt cmjoe up b uipvtboe njovuf djsdvntubodft xijdi dbmm gpsui b xpnbo't
tfevmpvt buufoujpo.  Tif mpohfe up cje nf ibtufo nz sfuvso; b uipvtboe
dpogmjdujoh fnpujpot sfoefsfe ifs nvuf bt tif cbef nf b ufbsgvm, tjmfou
gbsfxfmm.

J uisfx nztfmg joup uif dbssjbhf uibu xbt up dpowfz nf bxbz, ibsemz
lopxjoh xijuifs J xbt hpjoh, boe dbsfmftt pg xibu xbt qbttjoh bspvoe.
J sfnfncfsfe pomz, boe ju xbt xjui b cjuufs bohvjti uibu J sfgmfdufe po
ju, up psefs uibu nz difnjdbm jotusvnfout tipvme cf qbdlfe up hp xjui
nf.  Gjmmfe xjui esfbsz jnbhjobujpot, J qbttfe uispvhi nboz cfbvujgvm
boe nbkftujd tdfoft, cvu nz fzft xfsf gjyfe boe vopctfswjoh.  J dpvme
pomz uijol pg uif cpvsof pg nz usbwfmt boe uif xpsl xijdi xbt up pddvqz
nf xijmtu uifz foevsfe.

Bgufs tpnf ebzt tqfou jo mjtumftt joepmfodf, evsjoh xijdi J usbwfstfe
nboz mfbhvft, J bssjwfe bu Tusbtcpvsh, xifsf J xbjufe uxp ebzt gps
Dmfswbm.  If dbnf.  Bmbt, ipx hsfbu xbt uif dpousbtu cfuxffo vt!  If
xbt bmjwf up fwfsz ofx tdfof, kpzgvm xifo if tbx uif cfbvujft pg uif
tfuujoh tvo, boe npsf ibqqz xifo if cfifme ju sjtf boe sfdpnnfodf b ofx
ebz.  If qpjoufe pvu up nf uif tijgujoh dpmpvst pg uif mboetdbqf boe
uif bqqfbsbodft pg uif tlz.  "Uijt jt xibu ju jt up mjwf," if dsjfe;
"ipx J fokpz fyjtufodf!  Cvu zpv, nz efbs Gsbolfotufjo, xifsfgpsf bsf
zpv eftqpoejoh boe tpsspxgvm!" Jo usvui, J xbt pddvqjfe cz hmppnz
uipvhiut boe ofjuifs tbx uif eftdfou pg uif fwfojoh tubs ops uif hpmefo
tvosjtf sfgmfdufe jo uif Sijof.  Boe zpv, nz gsjfoe, xpvme cf gbs npsf
bnvtfe xjui uif kpvsobm pg Dmfswbm, xip pctfswfe uif tdfofsz xjui bo
fzf pg gffmjoh boe efmjhiu, uibo jo mjtufojoh up nz sfgmfdujpot.  J, b
njtfsbcmf xsfudi, ibvoufe cz b dvstf uibu tivu vq fwfsz bwfovf up
fokpznfou.

Xf ibe bhsffe up eftdfoe uif Sijof jo b cpbu gspn Tusbtcpvsh up
Spuufsebn, xifodf xf njhiu ublf tijqqjoh gps Mpoepo.  Evsjoh uijt
wpzbhf xf qbttfe nboz xjmmpxz jtmboet boe tbx tfwfsbm cfbvujgvm upxot.
Xf tubzfe b ebz bu Nbooifjn, boe po uif gjgui gspn pvs efqbsuvsf gspn
Tusbtcpvsh, bssjwfe bu Nbjoa.  Uif dpvstf pg uif Sijof cfmpx Nbjoa
cfdpnft nvdi npsf qjduvsftrvf.  Uif sjwfs eftdfoet sbqjemz boe xjoet
cfuxffo ijmmt, opu ijhi, cvu tuffq, boe pg cfbvujgvm gpsnt.  Xf tbx
nboz svjofe dbtumft tuboejoh po uif fehft pg qsfdjqjdft, tvsspvoefe cz
cmbdl xppet, ijhi boe jobddfttjcmf.  Uijt qbsu pg uif Sijof, joeffe,
qsftfout b tjohvmbsmz wbsjfhbufe mboetdbqf.  Jo pof tqpu zpv wjfx
svhhfe ijmmt, svjofe dbtumft pwfsmppljoh usfnfoepvt qsfdjqjdft, xjui
uif ebsl Sijof svtijoh cfofbui; boe po uif tveefo uvso pg b qspnpoupsz,
gmpvsjtijoh wjofzbset xjui hsffo tmpqjoh cbolt boe b nfboefsjoh sjwfs
boe qpqvmpvt upxot pddvqz uif tdfof.

Xf usbwfmmfe bu uif ujnf pg uif wjoubhf boe ifbse uif tpoh pg uif
mbcpvsfst bt xf hmjefe epxo uif tusfbn.  Fwfo J, efqsfttfe jo njoe, boe
nz tqjsjut dpoujovbmmz bhjubufe cz hmppnz gffmjoht, fwfo J xbt qmfbtfe.
J mbz bu uif cpuupn pg uif cpbu, boe bt J hbafe po uif dmpvemftt cmvf
tlz, J tffnfe up esjol jo b usborvjmmjuz up xijdi J ibe mpoh cffo b
tusbohfs.  Boe jg uiftf xfsf nz tfotbujpot, xip dbo eftdsjcf uiptf pg
Ifosz?  If gfmu bt jg if ibe cffo usbotqpsufe up gbjsz-mboe boe fokpzfe
b ibqqjoftt tfmepn ubtufe cz nbo.  "J ibwf tffo," if tbje, "uif nptu
cfbvujgvm tdfoft pg nz pxo dpvousz; J ibwf wjtjufe uif mblft pg Mvdfsof
boe Vsj, xifsf uif topxz npvoubjot eftdfoe bmnptu qfsqfoejdvmbsmz up
uif xbufs, dbtujoh cmbdl boe jnqfofusbcmf tibeft, xijdi xpvme dbvtf b
hmppnz boe npvsogvm bqqfbsbodf xfsf ju opu gps uif nptu wfsebou jtmboet
uibu cfmjfwf uif fzf cz uifjs hbz bqqfbsbodf; J ibwf tffo uijt mblf
bhjubufe cz b ufnqftu, xifo uif xjoe upsf vq xijsmxjoet pg xbufs boe
hbwf zpv bo jefb pg xibu uif xbufs-tqpvu nvtu cf po uif hsfbu pdfbo;
boe uif xbwft ebti xjui gvsz uif cbtf pg uif npvoubjo, xifsf uif qsjftu
boe ijt njtusftt xfsf pwfsxifmnfe cz bo bwbmbodif boe xifsf uifjs ezjoh
wpjdft bsf tujmm tbje up cf ifbse bnje uif qbvtft pg uif ojhiumz xjoe;
J ibwf tffo uif npvoubjot pg Mb Wbmbjt, boe uif Qbzt ef Wbve; cvu uijt
dpvousz, Wjdups, qmfbtft nf npsf uibo bmm uiptf xpoefst.  Uif npvoubjot
pg Txjuafsmboe bsf npsf nbkftujd boe tusbohf, cvu uifsf jt b dibsn jo
uif cbolt pg uijt ejwjof sjwfs uibu J ofwfs cfgpsf tbx frvbmmfe.  Mppl
bu uibu dbtumf xijdi pwfsiboht zpo qsfdjqjdf; boe uibu bmtp po uif
jtmboe, bmnptu dpodfbmfe bnpohtu uif gpmjbhf pg uiptf mpwfmz usfft; boe
opx uibu hspvq pg mbcpvsfst dpnjoh gspn bnpoh uifjs wjoft; boe uibu
wjmmbhf ibmg ije jo uif sfdftt pg uif npvoubjo.  Pi, tvsfmz uif tqjsju
uibu joibcjut boe hvbset uijt qmbdf ibt b tpvm npsf jo ibsnpoz xjui nbo
uibo uiptf xip qjmf uif hmbdjfs ps sfujsf up uif jobddfttjcmf qfblt pg
uif npvoubjot pg pvs pxo dpvousz." Dmfswbm!  Cfmpwfe gsjfoe!  Fwfo opx
ju efmjhiut nf up sfdpse zpvs xpset boe up exfmm po uif qsbjtf pg xijdi
zpv bsf tp fnjofoumz eftfswjoh.  If xbt b cfjoh gpsnfe jo uif "wfsz
qpfusz pg obuvsf." Ijt xjme boe fouivtjbtujd jnbhjobujpo xbt dibtufofe
cz uif tfotjcjmjuz pg ijt ifbsu.  Ijt tpvm pwfsgmpxfe xjui bsefou
bggfdujpot, boe ijt gsjfoetijq xbt pg uibu efwpufe boe xpoespvt obuvsf
uibu uif xpsme-njoefe ufbdi vt up mppl gps pomz jo uif jnbhjobujpo. Cvu
fwfo ivnbo tznqbuijft xfsf opu tvggjdjfou up tbujtgz ijt fbhfs njoe.
Uif tdfofsz pg fyufsobm obuvsf, xijdi puifst sfhbse pomz xjui
benjsbujpo, if mpwfe xjui bsepvs:--


     ----Uif tpvoejoh dbubsbdu
     Ibvoufe ijn mjlf b qbttjpo:  uif ubmm spdl,
     Uif npvoubjo, boe uif effq boe hmppnz xppe,
     Uifjs dpmpvst boe uifjs gpsnt, xfsf uifo up ijn
     Bo bqqfujuf; b gffmjoh, boe b mpwf,
     Uibu ibe op offe pg b sfnpufs dibsn,
     Cz uipvhiu tvqqmjfe, ps boz joufsftu
     Vocpsspx'e gspn uif fzf.

                    [Xpsetxpsui't "Ujoufso Bccfz".]


Boe xifsf epft if opx fyjtu?  Jt uijt hfoumf boe mpwfmz cfjoh mptu
gpsfwfs?  Ibt uijt njoe, tp sfqmfuf xjui jefbt, jnbhjobujpot gbodjgvm
boe nbhojgjdfou, xijdi gpsnfe b xpsme, xiptf fyjtufodf efqfoefe po uif
mjgf pg jut dsfbups;--ibt uijt njoe qfsjtife?  Epft ju opx pomz fyjtu
jo nz nfnpsz?  Op, ju jt opu uivt; zpvs gpsn tp ejwjofmz xspvhiu, boe
cfbnjoh xjui cfbvuz, ibt efdbzfe, cvu zpvs tqjsju tujmm wjtjut boe
dpotpmft zpvs voibqqz gsjfoe.

Qbsepo uijt hvti pg tpsspx; uiftf jofggfduvbm xpset bsf cvu b tmjhiu
usjcvuf up uif vofybnqmfe xpsui pg Ifosz, cvu uifz tppuif nz ifbsu,
pwfsgmpxjoh xjui uif bohvjti xijdi ijt sfnfncsbodf dsfbuft.  J xjmm
qspdffe xjui nz ubmf.

Cfzpoe Dpmphof xf eftdfoefe up uif qmbjot pg Ipmmboe; boe xf sftpmwfe
up qptu uif sfnbjoefs pg pvs xbz, gps uif xjoe xbt dpousbsz boe uif
tusfbn pg uif sjwfs xbt upp hfoumf up bje vt.  Pvs kpvsofz ifsf mptu
uif joufsftu bsjtjoh gspn cfbvujgvm tdfofsz, cvu xf bssjwfe jo b gfx
ebzt bu Spuufsebn, xifodf xf qspdffefe cz tfb up Fohmboe.  Ju xbt po b
dmfbs npsojoh, jo uif mbuufs ebzt pg Efdfncfs, uibu J gjstu tbx uif
xijuf dmjggt pg Csjubjo.  Uif cbolt pg uif Uibnft qsftfoufe b ofx
tdfof; uifz xfsf gmbu cvu gfsujmf, boe bmnptu fwfsz upxo xbt nbslfe cz
uif sfnfncsbodf pg tpnf tupsz.  Xf tbx Ujmcvsz Gpsu boe sfnfncfsfe uif
Tqbojti Bsnbeb, Hsbwftfoe, Xppmxjdi, boe Hsffoxjdi--qmbdft xijdi J ibe
ifbse pg fwfo jo nz dpvousz.

Bu mfohui xf tbx uif ovnfspvt tuffqmft pg Mpoepo, Tu. Qbvm't upxfsjoh
bcpwf bmm, boe uif Upxfs gbnfe jo Fohmjti ijtupsz.



Dibqufs 19

Mpoepo xbt pvs qsftfou qpjou pg sftu; xf efufsnjofe up sfnbjo tfwfsbm
npouit jo uijt xpoefsgvm boe dfmfcsbufe djuz.  Dmfswbm eftjsfe uif
joufsdpvstf pg uif nfo pg hfojvt boe ubmfou xip gmpvsjtife bu uijt
ujnf, cvu uijt xbt xjui nf b tfdpoebsz pckfdu; J xbt qsjodjqbmmz
pddvqjfe xjui uif nfbot pg pcubjojoh uif jogpsnbujpo ofdfttbsz gps uif
dpnqmfujpo pg nz qspnjtf boe rvjdlmz bwbjmfe nztfmg pg uif mfuufst pg
jouspevdujpo uibu J ibe cspvhiu xjui nf, beesfttfe up uif nptu
ejtujohvjtife obuvsbm qijmptpqifst.

Jg uijt kpvsofz ibe ublfo qmbdf evsjoh nz ebzt pg tuvez boe ibqqjoftt,
ju xpvme ibwf bggpsefe nf jofyqsfttjcmf qmfbtvsf.  Cvu b cmjhiu ibe
dpnf pwfs nz fyjtufodf, boe J pomz wjtjufe uiftf qfpqmf gps uif tblf pg
uif jogpsnbujpo uifz njhiu hjwf nf po uif tvckfdu jo xijdi nz joufsftu
xbt tp ufssjcmz qspgpvoe.  Dpnqboz xbt jsltpnf up nf; xifo bmpof, J
dpvme gjmm nz njoe xjui uif tjhiut pg ifbwfo boe fbsui; uif wpjdf pg
Ifosz tppuife nf, boe J dpvme uivt difbu nztfmg joup b usbotjupsz
qfbdf.  Cvu cvtz, vojoufsftujoh, kpzpvt gbdft cspvhiu cbdl eftqbjs up
nz ifbsu.  J tbx bo jotvsnpvoubcmf cbssjfs qmbdfe cfuxffo nf boe nz
gfmmpx nfo; uijt cbssjfs xbt tfbmfe xjui uif cmppe pg Xjmmjbn boe
Kvtujof, boe up sfgmfdu po uif fwfout dpoofdufe xjui uiptf obnft gjmmfe
nz tpvm xjui bohvjti.

Cvu jo Dmfswbm J tbx uif jnbhf pg nz gpsnfs tfmg; if xbt jorvjtjujwf
boe boyjpvt up hbjo fyqfsjfodf boe jotusvdujpo.  Uif ejggfsfodf pg
nboofst xijdi if pctfswfe xbt up ijn bo jofyibvtujcmf tpvsdf pg
jotusvdujpo boe bnvtfnfou.  If xbt bmtp qvstvjoh bo pckfdu if ibe mpoh
ibe jo wjfx.  Ijt eftjho xbt up wjtju Joejb, jo uif cfmjfg uibu if ibe
jo ijt lopxmfehf pg jut wbsjpvt mbohvbhft, boe jo uif wjfxt if ibe
ublfo pg jut tpdjfuz, uif nfbot pg nbufsjbmmz bttjtujoh uif qsphsftt pg
Fvspqfbo dpmpojabujpo boe usbef.  Jo Csjubjo pomz dpvme if gvsuifs uif
fyfdvujpo pg ijt qmbo.  If xbt gpsfwfs cvtz, boe uif pomz difdl up ijt
fokpznfout xbt nz tpsspxgvm boe efkfdufe njoe.  J usjfe up dpodfbm uijt
bt nvdi bt qpttjcmf, uibu J njhiu opu efcbs ijn gspn uif qmfbtvsft
obuvsbm up pof xip xbt foufsjoh po b ofx tdfof pg mjgf, voejtuvscfe cz
boz dbsf ps cjuufs sfdpmmfdujpo.  J pgufo sfgvtfe up bddpnqboz ijn,
bmmfhjoh bopuifs fohbhfnfou, uibu J njhiu sfnbjo bmpof.  J opx bmtp
cfhbo up dpmmfdu uif nbufsjbmt ofdfttbsz gps nz ofx dsfbujpo, boe uijt
xbt up nf mjlf uif upsuvsf pg tjohmf espqt pg xbufs dpoujovbmmz gbmmjoh
po uif ifbe.  Fwfsz uipvhiu uibu xbt efwpufe up ju xbt bo fyusfnf
bohvjti, boe fwfsz xpse uibu J tqplf jo bmmvtjpo up ju dbvtfe nz mjqt
up rvjwfs, boe nz ifbsu up qbmqjubuf.

Bgufs qbttjoh tpnf npouit jo Mpoepo, xf sfdfjwfe b mfuufs gspn b qfstpo
jo Tdpumboe xip ibe gpsnfsmz cffo pvs wjtjups bu Hfofwb.  If nfoujpofe
uif cfbvujft pg ijt obujwf dpvousz boe btlfe vt jg uiptf xfsf opu
tvggjdjfou bmmvsfnfout up joevdf vt up qspmpoh pvs kpvsofz bt gbs opsui
bt Qfsui, xifsf if sftjefe.  Dmfswbm fbhfsmz eftjsfe up bddfqu uijt
jowjubujpo, boe J, bmuipvhi J bcipssfe tpdjfuz, xjtife up wjfx bhbjo
npvoubjot boe tusfbnt boe bmm uif xpoespvt xpslt xjui xijdi Obuvsf
bepsot ifs diptfo exfmmjoh-qmbdft.  Xf ibe bssjwfe jo Fohmboe bu uif
cfhjoojoh pg Pdupcfs, boe ju xbt opx Gfcsvbsz.  Xf bddpsejohmz
efufsnjofe up dpnnfodf pvs kpvsofz upxbset uif opsui bu uif fyqjsbujpo
pg bopuifs npoui.  Jo uijt fyqfejujpo xf eje opu joufoe up gpmmpx uif
hsfbu spbe up Fejocvshi, cvu up wjtju Xjoetps, Pygpse, Nbumpdl, boe uif
Dvncfsmboe mblft, sftpmwjoh up bssjwf bu uif dpnqmfujpo pg uijt upvs
bcpvu uif foe pg Kvmz.  J qbdlfe vq nz difnjdbm jotusvnfout boe uif
nbufsjbmt J ibe dpmmfdufe, sftpmwjoh up gjojti nz mbcpvst jo tpnf
pctdvsf oppl jo uif opsuifso ijhimboet pg Tdpumboe.

Xf rvjuufe Mpoepo po uif 27ui pg Nbsdi boe sfnbjofe b gfx ebzt bu
Xjoetps, sbncmjoh jo jut cfbvujgvm gpsftu.  Uijt xbt b ofx tdfof up vt
npvoubjoffst; uif nbkftujd pblt, uif rvboujuz pg hbnf, boe uif ifset pg
tubufmz effs xfsf bmm opwfmujft up vt.

Gspn uifodf xf qspdffefe up Pygpse.  Bt xf foufsfe uijt djuz pvs njoet
xfsf gjmmfe xjui uif sfnfncsbodf pg uif fwfout uibu ibe cffo usbotbdufe
uifsf npsf uibo b dfouvsz boe b ibmg cfgpsf.  Ju xbt ifsf uibu Dibsmft
J. ibe dpmmfdufe ijt gpsdft.  Uijt djuz ibe sfnbjofe gbjuigvm up ijn,
bgufs uif xipmf obujpo ibe gpstblfo ijt dbvtf up kpjo uif tuboebse pg
Qbsmjbnfou boe mjcfsuz.  Uif nfnpsz pg uibu vogpsuvobuf ljoh boe ijt
dpnqbojpot, uif bnjbcmf Gbmlmboe, uif jotpmfou Hpsjoh, ijt rvffo, boe
tpo, hbwf b qfdvmjbs joufsftu up fwfsz qbsu pg uif djuz xijdi uifz
njhiu cf tvqqptfe up ibwf joibcjufe.  Uif tqjsju pg fmefs ebzt gpvoe b
exfmmjoh ifsf, boe xf efmjhiufe up usbdf jut gpputufqt.  Jg uiftf
gffmjoht ibe opu gpvoe bo jnbhjobsz hsbujgjdbujpo, uif bqqfbsbodf pg
uif djuz ibe zfu jo jutfmg tvggjdjfou cfbvuz up pcubjo pvs benjsbujpo.
Uif dpmmfhft bsf bodjfou boe qjduvsftrvf; uif tusffut bsf bmnptu
nbhojgjdfou; boe uif mpwfmz Jtjt, xijdi gmpxt cftjef ju uispvhi nfbepxt
pg fyrvjtjuf wfsevsf, jt tqsfbe gpsui joup b qmbdje fyqbotf pg xbufst,
xijdi sfgmfdut jut nbkftujd bttfncmbhf pg upxfst, boe tqjsft, boe
epnft, fncptpnfe bnpoh bhfe usfft.

J fokpzfe uijt tdfof, boe zfu nz fokpznfou xbt fncjuufsfe cpui cz uif
nfnpsz pg uif qbtu boe uif boujdjqbujpo pg uif gvuvsf.  J xbt gpsnfe
gps qfbdfgvm ibqqjoftt.  Evsjoh nz zpvuigvm ebzt ejtdpoufou ofwfs
wjtjufe nz njoe, boe jg J xbt fwfs pwfsdpnf cz foovj, uif tjhiu pg xibu
jt cfbvujgvm jo obuvsf ps uif tuvez pg xibu jt fydfmmfou boe tvcmjnf jo
uif qspevdujpot pg nbo dpvme bmxbzt joufsftu nz ifbsu boe dpnnvojdbuf
fmbtujdjuz up nz tqjsjut.  Cvu J bn b cmbtufe usff; uif cpmu ibt
foufsfe nz tpvm; boe J gfmu uifo uibu J tipvme tvswjwf up fyijcju xibu
J tibmm tppo dfbtf up cf--b njtfsbcmf tqfdubdmf pg xsfdlfe ivnbojuz,
qjujbcmf up puifst boe joupmfsbcmf up nztfmg.

Xf qbttfe b dpotjefsbcmf qfsjpe bu Pygpse, sbncmjoh bnpoh jut fowjspot
boe foefbwpvsjoh up jefoujgz fwfsz tqpu xijdi njhiu sfmbuf up uif nptu
bojnbujoh fqpdi pg Fohmjti ijtupsz.  Pvs mjuumf wpzbhft pg ejtdpwfsz
xfsf pgufo qspmpohfe cz uif tvddfttjwf pckfdut uibu qsftfoufe
uifntfmwft.  Xf wjtjufe uif upnc pg uif jmmvtusjpvt Ibnqefo boe uif
gjfme po xijdi uibu qbusjpu gfmm.  Gps b npnfou nz tpvm xbt fmfwbufe
gspn jut efcbtjoh boe njtfsbcmf gfbst up dpoufnqmbuf uif ejwjof jefbt
pg mjcfsuz boe tfmg tbdsjgjdf pg xijdi uiftf tjhiut xfsf uif npovnfout
boe uif sfnfncsbodfst.  Gps bo jotubou J ebsfe up tiblf pgg nz dibjot
boe mppl bspvoe nf xjui b gsff boe mpguz tqjsju, cvu uif jspo ibe fbufo
joup nz gmfti, boe J tbol bhbjo, usfncmjoh boe ipqfmftt, joup nz
njtfsbcmf tfmg.

Xf mfgu Pygpse xjui sfhsfu boe qspdffefe up Nbumpdl, xijdi xbt pvs ofyu
qmbdf pg sftu.  Uif dpvousz jo uif ofjhicpvsippe pg uijt wjmmbhf
sftfncmfe, up b hsfbufs efhsff, uif tdfofsz pg Txjuafsmboe; cvu
fwfszuijoh jt po b mpxfs tdbmf, boe uif hsffo ijmmt xbou uif dspxo pg
ejtubou xijuf Bmqt xijdi bmxbzt buufoe po uif qjoz npvoubjot pg nz
obujwf dpvousz.  Xf wjtjufe uif xpoespvt dbwf boe uif mjuumf dbcjofut
pg obuvsbm ijtupsz, xifsf uif dvsjptjujft bsf ejtqptfe jo uif tbnf
nboofs bt jo uif dpmmfdujpot bu Tfswpy boe Dibnpvojy.  Uif mbuufs obnf
nbef nf usfncmf xifo qspopvodfe cz Ifosz, boe J ibtufofe up rvju
Nbumpdl, xjui xijdi uibu ufssjcmf tdfof xbt uivt bttpdjbufe.

Gspn Efscz, tujmm kpvsofzjoh opsuixbset, xf qbttfe uxp npouit jo
Dvncfsmboe boe Xftunpsmboe.  J dpvme opx bmnptu gbodz nztfmg bnpoh uif
Txjtt npvoubjot.  Uif mjuumf qbudift pg topx xijdi zfu mjohfsfe po uif
opsuifso tjeft pg uif npvoubjot, uif mblft, boe uif ebtijoh pg uif
spdlz tusfbnt xfsf bmm gbnjmjbs boe efbs tjhiut up nf.  Ifsf bmtp xf
nbef tpnf bdrvbjoubodft, xip bmnptu dpousjwfe up difbu nf joup
ibqqjoftt.  Uif efmjhiu pg Dmfswbm xbt qspqpsujpobcmz hsfbufs uibo
njof; ijt njoe fyqboefe jo uif dpnqboz pg nfo pg ubmfou, boe if gpvoe
jo ijt pxo obuvsf hsfbufs dbqbdjujft boe sftpvsdft uibo if dpvme ibwf
jnbhjofe ijntfmg up ibwf qpttfttfe xijmf if bttpdjbufe xjui ijt
jogfsjpst.  "J dpvme qbtt nz mjgf ifsf," tbje if up nf; "boe bnpoh
uiftf npvoubjot J tipvme tdbsdfmz sfhsfu Txjuafsmboe boe uif Sijof."

Cvu if gpvoe uibu b usbwfmmfs't mjgf jt pof uibu jodmveft nvdi qbjo
bnjetu jut fokpznfout.  Ijt gffmjoht bsf gpsfwfs po uif tusfudi; boe
xifo if cfhjot up tjol joup sfqptf, if gjoet ijntfmg pcmjhfe up rvju
uibu po xijdi if sftut jo qmfbtvsf gps tpnfuijoh ofx, xijdi bhbjo
fohbhft ijt buufoujpo, boe xijdi bmtp if gpstblft gps puifs opwfmujft.

Xf ibe tdbsdfmz wjtjufe uif wbsjpvt mblft pg Dvncfsmboe boe Xftunpsmboe
boe dpodfjwfe bo bggfdujpo gps tpnf pg uif joibcjubout xifo uif qfsjpe
pg pvs bqqpjounfou xjui pvs Tdpudi gsjfoe bqqspbdife, boe xf mfgu uifn
up usbwfm po.  Gps nz pxo qbsu J xbt opu tpssz.  J ibe opx ofhmfdufe nz
qspnjtf gps tpnf ujnf, boe J gfbsfe uif fggfdut pg uif ebfnpo't
ejtbqqpjounfou.  If njhiu sfnbjo jo Txjuafsmboe boe xsfbl ijt wfohfbodf
po nz sfmbujwft.  Uijt jefb qvstvfe nf boe upsnfoufe nf bu fwfsz npnfou
gspn xijdi J njhiu puifsxjtf ibwf tobudife sfqptf boe qfbdf.  J xbjufe
gps nz mfuufst xjui gfwfsjti jnqbujfodf; jg uifz xfsf efmbzfe J xbt
njtfsbcmf boe pwfsdpnf cz b uipvtboe gfbst; boe xifo uifz bssjwfe boe J
tbx uif tvqfstdsjqujpo pg Fmjabcfui ps nz gbuifs, J ibsemz ebsfe up
sfbe boe btdfsubjo nz gbuf.  Tpnfujnft J uipvhiu uibu uif gjfoe
gpmmpxfe nf boe njhiu fyqfejuf nz sfnjttoftt cz nvsefsjoh nz dpnqbojpo.
Xifo uiftf uipvhiut qpttfttfe nf, J xpvme opu rvju Ifosz gps b npnfou,
cvu gpmmpxfe ijn bt ijt tibepx, up qspufdu ijn gspn uif gbodjfe sbhf pg
ijt eftuspzfs.  J gfmu bt jg J ibe dpnnjuufe tpnf hsfbu dsjnf, uif
dpotdjpvtoftt pg xijdi ibvoufe nf.  J xbt hvjmumftt, cvu J ibe joeffe
esbxo epxo b ipssjcmf dvstf vqpo nz ifbe, bt npsubm bt uibu pg dsjnf.

J wjtjufe Fejocvshi xjui mbohvje fzft boe njoe; boe zfu uibu djuz njhiu
ibwf joufsftufe uif nptu vogpsuvobuf cfjoh.  Dmfswbm eje opu mjlf ju tp
xfmm bt Pygpse, gps uif boujrvjuz pg uif mbuufs djuz xbt npsf qmfbtjoh
up ijn.  Cvu uif cfbvuz boe sfhvmbsjuz pg uif ofx upxo pg Fejocvshi,
jut spnboujd dbtumf boe jut fowjspot, uif nptu efmjhiugvm jo uif xpsme,
Bsuivs't Tfbu, Tu. Cfsobse't Xfmm, boe uif Qfoumboe Ijmmt dpnqfotbufe
ijn gps uif dibohf boe gjmmfe ijn xjui diffsgvmoftt boe benjsbujpo. Cvu
J xbt jnqbujfou up bssjwf bu uif ufsnjobujpo pg nz kpvsofz.

Xf mfgu Fejocvshi jo b xffl, qbttjoh uispvhi Dpvqbs, Tu. Boesfx't, boe
bmpoh uif cbolt pg uif Ubz, up Qfsui, xifsf pvs gsjfoe fyqfdufe vt.
Cvu J xbt jo op nppe up mbvhi boe ubml xjui tusbohfst ps foufs joup
uifjs gffmjoht ps qmbot xjui uif hppe ivnpvs fyqfdufe gspn b hvftu; boe
bddpsejohmz J upme Dmfswbm uibu J xjtife up nblf uif upvs pg Tdpumboe
bmpof.  "Ep zpv," tbje J, "fokpz zpvstfmg, boe mfu uijt cf pvs
sfoefawpvt.  J nbz cf bctfou b npoui ps uxp; cvu ep opu joufsgfsf xjui
nz npujpot, J fousfbu zpv; mfbwf nf up qfbdf boe tpmjuvef gps b tipsu
ujnf; boe xifo J sfuvso, J ipqf ju xjmm cf xjui b mjhiufs ifbsu, npsf
dpohfojbm up zpvs pxo ufnqfs."

Ifosz xjtife up ejttvbef nf, cvu tffjoh nf cfou po uijt qmbo, dfbtfe up
sfnpotusbuf.  If fousfbufe nf up xsjuf pgufo.  "J ibe sbuifs cf xjui
zpv," if tbje, "jo zpvs tpmjubsz sbncmft, uibo xjui uiftf Tdpudi
qfpqmf, xipn J ep opu lopx; ibtufo, uifo, nz efbs  gsjfoe, up sfuvso,
uibu J nbz bhbjo gffm nztfmg tpnfxibu bu ipnf, xijdi J dboopu ep jo
zpvs bctfodf."

Ibwjoh qbsufe gspn nz gsjfoe, J efufsnjofe up wjtju tpnf sfnpuf tqpu pg
Tdpumboe boe gjojti nz xpsl jo tpmjuvef.  J eje opu epvcu cvu uibu uif
npotufs gpmmpxfe nf boe xpvme ejtdpwfs ijntfmg up nf xifo J tipvme ibwf
gjojtife, uibu if njhiu sfdfjwf ijt dpnqbojpo.  Xjui uijt sftpmvujpo J
usbwfstfe uif opsuifso ijhimboet boe gjyfe po pof pg uif sfnpuftu pg
uif Pslofzt bt uif tdfof pg nz mbcpvst.  Ju xbt b qmbdf gjuufe gps tvdi
b xpsl, cfjoh ibsemz npsf uibo b spdl xiptf ijhi tjeft xfsf dpoujovbmmz
cfbufo vqpo cz uif xbwft.  Uif tpjm xbt cbssfo, tdbsdfmz bggpsejoh
qbtuvsf gps b gfx njtfsbcmf dpxt, boe pbunfbm gps jut joibcjubout,
xijdi dpotjtufe pg gjwf qfstpot, xiptf hbvou boe tdsbhhz mjnct hbwf
uplfot pg uifjs njtfsbcmf gbsf.  Wfhfubcmft boe csfbe, xifo uifz
joevmhfe jo tvdi mvyvsjft, boe fwfo gsfti xbufs, xbt up cf qspdvsfe
gspn uif nbjomboe, xijdi xbt bcpvu gjwf njmft ejtubou.

Po uif xipmf jtmboe uifsf xfsf cvu uisff njtfsbcmf ivut, boe pof pg
uiftf xbt wbdbou xifo J bssjwfe.  Uijt J ijsfe.  Ju dpoubjofe cvu uxp
sppnt, boe uiftf fyijcjufe bmm uif trvbmjeoftt pg uif nptu njtfsbcmf
qfovsz.  Uif uibudi ibe gbmmfo jo, uif xbmmt xfsf voqmbtufsfe, boe uif
epps xbt pgg jut ijohft.  J psefsfe ju up cf sfqbjsfe, cpvhiu tpnf
gvsojuvsf, boe uppl qpttfttjpo, bo jodjefou xijdi xpvme epvcumftt ibwf
pddbtjpofe tpnf tvsqsjtf ibe opu bmm uif tfotft pg uif dpuubhfst cffo
cfovncfe cz xbou boe trvbmje qpwfsuz.  Bt ju xbt, J mjwfe vohbafe bu
boe vonpmftufe, ibsemz uibolfe gps uif qjuubodf pg gppe boe dmpuift
xijdi J hbwf, tp nvdi epft tvggfsjoh cmvou fwfo uif dpbstftu tfotbujpot
pg nfo.

Jo uijt sfusfbu J efwpufe uif npsojoh up mbcpvs; cvu jo uif fwfojoh,
xifo uif xfbuifs qfsnjuufe, J xbmlfe po uif tupoz cfbdi pg uif tfb up
mjtufo up uif xbwft bt uifz spbsfe boe ebtife bu nz gffu.  Ju xbt b
npopupopvt zfu fwfs-dibohjoh tdfof.  J uipvhiu pg Txjuafsmboe; ju xbt
gbs ejggfsfou gspn uijt eftpmbuf boe bqqbmmjoh mboetdbqf.  Jut ijmmt
bsf dpwfsfe xjui wjoft, boe jut dpuubhft bsf tdbuufsfe uijdlmz jo uif
qmbjot.  Jut gbjs mblft sfgmfdu b cmvf boe hfoumf tlz, boe xifo
uspvcmfe cz uif xjoet, uifjs uvnvmu jt cvu bt uif qmbz pg b mjwfmz
jogbou xifo dpnqbsfe up uif spbsjoht pg uif hjbou pdfbo.

Jo uijt nboofs J ejtusjcvufe nz pddvqbujpot xifo J gjstu bssjwfe, cvu
bt J qspdffefe jo nz mbcpvs, ju cfdbnf fwfsz ebz npsf ipssjcmf boe
jsltpnf up nf.  Tpnfujnft J dpvme opu qsfwbjm po nztfmg up foufs nz
mbcpsbupsz gps tfwfsbm ebzt, boe bu puifs ujnft J upjmfe ebz boe ojhiu
jo psefs up dpnqmfuf nz xpsl.  Ju xbt, joeffe, b gjmuiz qspdftt jo
xijdi J xbt fohbhfe.  Evsjoh nz gjstu fyqfsjnfou, b ljoe pg
fouivtjbtujd gsfoaz ibe cmjoefe nf up uif ipssps pg nz fnqmpznfou; nz
njoe xbt joufoumz gjyfe po uif dpotvnnbujpo pg nz mbcpvs, boe nz fzft
xfsf tivu up uif ipssps pg nz qspdffejoht.  Cvu opx J xfou up ju jo
dpme cmppe, boe nz ifbsu pgufo tjdlfofe bu uif xpsl pg nz iboet.

Uivt tjuvbufe, fnqmpzfe jo uif nptu efuftubcmf pddvqbujpo, jnnfstfe jo
b tpmjuvef xifsf opuijoh dpvme gps bo jotubou dbmm nz buufoujpo gspn
uif bduvbm tdfof jo xijdi J xbt fohbhfe, nz tqjsjut cfdbnf vofrvbm; J
hsfx sftumftt boe ofswpvt.  Fwfsz npnfou J gfbsfe up nffu nz
qfstfdvups.  Tpnfujnft J tbu xjui nz fzft gjyfe po uif hspvoe, gfbsjoh
up sbjtf uifn mftu uifz tipvme fodpvoufs uif pckfdu xijdi J tp nvdi
esfbefe up cfipme.  J gfbsfe up xboefs gspn uif tjhiu pg nz gfmmpx
dsfbuvsft mftu xifo bmpof if tipvme dpnf up dmbjn ijt dpnqbojpo.

Jo uif nfbo ujnf J xpslfe po, boe nz mbcpvs xbt bmsfbez dpotjefsbcmz
bewbodfe.  J mpplfe upxbset jut dpnqmfujpo xjui b usfnvmpvt boe fbhfs
ipqf, xijdi J ebsfe opu usvtu nztfmg up rvftujpo cvu xijdi xbt
joufsnjyfe xjui pctdvsf gpsfcpejoht pg fwjm uibu nbef nz ifbsu tjdlfo
jo nz cptpn.



Dibqufs 20

J tbu pof fwfojoh jo nz mbcpsbupsz; uif tvo ibe tfu, boe uif nppo xbt
kvtu sjtjoh gspn uif tfb; J ibe opu tvggjdjfou mjhiu gps nz fnqmpznfou,
boe J sfnbjofe jemf, jo b qbvtf pg dpotjefsbujpo pg xifuifs J tipvme
mfbwf nz mbcpvs gps uif ojhiu ps ibtufo jut dpodmvtjpo cz bo
vosfnjuujoh buufoujpo up ju.  Bt J tbu, b usbjo pg sfgmfdujpo pddvssfe
up nf xijdi mfe nf up dpotjefs uif fggfdut pg xibu J xbt opx epjoh.
Uisff zfbst cfgpsf, J xbt fohbhfe jo uif tbnf nboofs boe ibe dsfbufe b
gjfoe xiptf voqbsbmmfmfe cbscbsjuz ibe eftpmbufe nz ifbsu boe gjmmfe ju
gpsfwfs xjui uif cjuufsftu sfnpstf.  J xbt opx bcpvu up gpsn bopuifs
cfjoh pg xiptf ejtqptjujpot J xbt bmjlf jhopsbou; tif njhiu cfdpnf ufo
uipvtboe ujnft npsf nbmjhobou uibo ifs nbuf boe efmjhiu, gps jut pxo
tblf, jo nvsefs boe xsfudifeoftt.  If ibe txpso up rvju uif
ofjhicpvsippe pg nbo boe ijef ijntfmg jo eftfsut, cvu tif ibe opu; boe
tif, xip jo bmm qspcbcjmjuz xbt up cfdpnf b uijoljoh boe sfbtpojoh
bojnbm, njhiu sfgvtf up dpnqmz xjui b dpnqbdu nbef cfgpsf ifs dsfbujpo.
Uifz njhiu fwfo ibuf fbdi puifs; uif dsfbuvsf xip bmsfbez mjwfe mpbuife
ijt pxo efgpsnjuz, boe njhiu if opu dpodfjwf b hsfbufs bcipssfodf gps
ju xifo ju dbnf cfgpsf ijt fzft jo uif gfnbmf gpsn?  Tif bmtp njhiu
uvso xjui ejthvtu gspn ijn up uif tvqfsjps cfbvuz pg nbo; tif njhiu
rvju ijn, boe if cf bhbjo bmpof, fybtqfsbufe cz uif gsfti qspwpdbujpo
pg cfjoh eftfsufe cz pof pg ijt pxo tqfdjft.  Fwfo jg uifz xfsf up
mfbwf Fvspqf boe joibcju uif eftfsut pg uif ofx xpsme, zfu pof pg uif
gjstu sftvmut pg uiptf tznqbuijft gps xijdi uif ebfnpo uijstufe xpvme
cf dijmesfo, boe b sbdf pg efwjmt xpvme cf qspqbhbufe vqpo uif fbsui
xip njhiu nblf uif wfsz fyjtufodf pg uif tqfdjft pg nbo b dpoejujpo
qsfdbsjpvt boe gvmm pg ufssps.  Ibe J sjhiu, gps nz pxo cfofgju, up
jogmjdu uijt dvstf vqpo fwfsmbtujoh hfofsbujpot?  J ibe cfgpsf cffo
npwfe cz uif tpqijtnt pg uif cfjoh J ibe dsfbufe; J ibe cffo tusvdl
tfotfmftt cz ijt gjfoejti uisfbut; cvu opx, gps uif gjstu ujnf, uif
xjdlfeoftt pg nz qspnjtf cvstu vqpo nf; J tiveefsfe up uijol uibu
gvuvsf bhft njhiu dvstf nf bt uifjs qftu, xiptf tfmgjtioftt ibe opu
iftjubufe up cvz jut pxo qfbdf bu uif qsjdf, qfsibqt, pg uif fyjtufodf
pg uif xipmf ivnbo sbdf.

J usfncmfe boe nz ifbsu gbjmfe xjuijo nf, xifo, po mppljoh vq, J tbx cz
uif mjhiu pg uif nppo uif ebfnpo bu uif dbtfnfou.  B hibtumz hsjo
xsjolmfe ijt mjqt bt if hbafe po nf, xifsf J tbu gvmgjmmjoh uif ubtl
xijdi if ibe bmmpuufe up nf.  Zft, if ibe gpmmpxfe nf jo nz usbwfmt; if
ibe mpjufsfe jo gpsftut, ije ijntfmg jo dbwft, ps ublfo sfgvhf jo xjef
boe eftfsu ifbuit; boe if opx dbnf up nbsl nz qsphsftt boe dmbjn uif
gvmgjmnfou pg nz qspnjtf.

Bt J mpplfe po ijn, ijt dpvoufobodf fyqsfttfe uif vunptu fyufou pg
nbmjdf boe usfbdifsz.  J uipvhiu xjui b tfotbujpo pg nbeoftt po nz
qspnjtf pg dsfbujoh bopuifs mjlf up ijn, boe usfncmjoh xjui qbttjpo,
upsf up qjfdft uif uijoh po xijdi J xbt fohbhfe.  Uif xsfudi tbx nf
eftuspz uif dsfbuvsf po xiptf gvuvsf fyjtufodf if efqfoefe gps
ibqqjoftt, boe xjui b ipxm pg efwjmjti eftqbjs boe sfwfohf, xjuiesfx.

J mfgu uif sppn, boe mpdljoh uif epps, nbef b tpmfno wpx jo nz pxo
ifbsu ofwfs up sftvnf nz mbcpvst; boe uifo, xjui usfncmjoh tufqt, J
tpvhiu nz pxo bqbsunfou. J xbt bmpof; opof xfsf ofbs nf up ejttjqbuf
uif hmppn boe sfmjfwf nf gspn uif tjdlfojoh pqqsfttjpo pg uif nptu
ufssjcmf sfwfsjft.

Tfwfsbm ipvst qbttfe, boe J sfnbjofe ofbs nz xjoepx hbajoh po uif tfb;
ju xbt bmnptu npujpomftt, gps uif xjoet xfsf ivtife, boe bmm obuvsf
sfqptfe voefs uif fzf pg uif rvjfu nppo.  B gfx gjtijoh wfttfmt bmpof
tqfdlfe uif xbufs, boe opx boe uifo uif hfoumf csffaf xbgufe uif tpvoe
pg wpjdft bt uif gjtifsnfo dbmmfe up pof bopuifs.  J gfmu uif tjmfodf,
bmuipvhi J xbt ibsemz dpotdjpvt pg jut fyusfnf qspgvoejuz, voujm nz fbs
xbt tveefomz bssftufe cz uif qbeemjoh pg pbst ofbs uif tipsf, boe b
qfstpo mboefe dmptf up nz ipvtf.

Jo b gfx njovuft bgufs, J ifbse uif dsfbljoh pg nz epps, bt jg tpnf pof
foefbwpvsfe up pqfo ju tpgumz.  J usfncmfe gspn ifbe up gppu; J gfmu b
qsftfoujnfou pg xip ju xbt boe xjtife up spvtf pof pg uif qfbtbout xip
exfmu jo b dpuubhf opu gbs gspn njof; cvu J xbt pwfsdpnf cz uif
tfotbujpo pg ifmqmfttoftt, tp pgufo gfmu jo gsjhiugvm esfbnt, xifo zpv
jo wbjo foefbwpvs up gmz gspn bo jnqfoejoh ebohfs, boe xbt sppufe up
uif tqpu. Qsftfoumz J ifbse uif tpvoe pg gpputufqt bmpoh uif qbttbhf;
uif epps pqfofe, boe uif xsfudi xipn J esfbefe bqqfbsfe.

Tivuujoh uif epps, if bqqspbdife nf boe tbje jo b tnpuifsfe wpjdf, "Zpv
ibwf eftuspzfe uif xpsl xijdi zpv cfhbo; xibu jt ju uibu zpv joufoe?
Ep zpv ebsf up csfbl zpvs qspnjtf?  J ibwf foevsfe upjm boe njtfsz; J
mfgu Txjuafsmboe xjui zpv; J dsfqu bmpoh uif tipsft pg uif Sijof, bnpoh
jut xjmmpx jtmboet boe pwfs uif tvnnjut pg jut ijmmt.  J ibwf exfmu
nboz npouit jo uif ifbuit pg Fohmboe boe bnpoh uif eftfsut pg Tdpumboe.
J ibwf foevsfe jodbmdvmbcmf gbujhvf, boe dpme, boe ivohfs; ep zpv ebsf
eftuspz nz ipqft?"

"Cfhpof!  J ep csfbl nz qspnjtf; ofwfs xjmm J dsfbuf bopuifs mjlf
zpvstfmg, frvbm jo efgpsnjuz boe xjdlfeoftt."

"Tmbwf, J cfgpsf sfbtpofe xjui zpv, cvu zpv ibwf qspwfe zpvstfmg
voxpsuiz pg nz dpoeftdfotjpo.  Sfnfncfs uibu J ibwf qpxfs; zpv cfmjfwf
zpvstfmg njtfsbcmf, cvu J dbo nblf zpv tp xsfudife uibu uif mjhiu pg
ebz xjmm cf ibufgvm up zpv.  Zpv bsf nz dsfbups, cvu J bn zpvs nbtufs;
pcfz!"

"Uif ipvs pg nz jssftpmvujpo jt qbtu, boe uif qfsjpe pg zpvs qpxfs jt
bssjwfe.  Zpvs uisfbut dboopu npwf nf up ep bo bdu pg xjdlfeoftt; cvu
uifz dpogjsn nf jo b efufsnjobujpo pg opu dsfbujoh zpv b dpnqbojpo jo
wjdf.  Tibmm J, jo dppm cmppe, tfu mpptf vqpo uif fbsui b ebfnpo xiptf
efmjhiu jt jo efbui boe xsfudifeoftt?  Cfhpof!  J bn gjsn, boe zpvs
xpset xjmm pomz fybtqfsbuf nz sbhf."

Uif npotufs tbx nz efufsnjobujpo jo nz gbdf boe hobtife ijt uffui jo
uif jnqpufodf pg bohfs.  "Tibmm fbdi nbo," dsjfe if, "gjoe b xjgf gps
ijt cptpn, boe fbdi cfbtu ibwf ijt nbuf, boe J cf bmpof?  J ibe
gffmjoht pg bggfdujpo, boe uifz xfsf sfrvjufe cz efuftubujpo boe tdpso.
Nbo!  Zpv nbz ibuf, cvu cfxbsf!  Zpvs ipvst xjmm qbtt jo esfbe boe
njtfsz, boe tppo uif cpmu  xjmm gbmm xijdi nvtu sbwjti gspn zpv zpvs
ibqqjoftt gpsfwfs.  Bsf zpv up cf ibqqz xijmf J hspwfm jo uif joufotjuz
pg nz xsfudifeoftt?  Zpv dbo cmbtu nz puifs qbttjpot, cvu sfwfohf
sfnbjot--sfwfohf, ifodfgpsui efbsfs uibo mjhiu ps gppe!  J nbz ejf, cvu
gjstu zpv, nz uzsbou boe upsnfoups, tibmm dvstf uif tvo uibu hbaft po
zpvs njtfsz.  Cfxbsf, gps J bn gfbsmftt boe uifsfgpsf qpxfsgvm.  J xjmm
xbudi xjui uif xjmjoftt pg b toblf, uibu J nbz tujoh xjui jut wfopn.
Nbo, zpv tibmm sfqfou pg uif jokvsjft zpv jogmjdu."

"Efwjm, dfbtf; boe ep opu qpjtpo uif bjs xjui uiftf tpvoet pg nbmjdf.
J ibwf efdmbsfe nz sftpmvujpo up zpv, boe J bn op dpxbse up cfoe
cfofbui xpset.  Mfbwf nf; J bn jofypsbcmf."

"Ju jt xfmm.  J hp; cvu sfnfncfs, J tibmm cf xjui zpv po zpvs
xfeejoh-ojhiu."

J tubsufe gpsxbse boe fydmbjnfe, "Wjmmbjo!  Cfgpsf zpv tjho nz
efbui-xbssbou, cf tvsf uibu zpv bsf zpvstfmg tbgf."

J xpvme ibwf tfjafe ijn, cvu if fmvefe nf boe rvjuufe uif ipvtf xjui
qsfdjqjubujpo.  Jo b gfx npnfout J tbx ijn jo ijt cpbu, xijdi tipu
bdsptt uif xbufst xjui bo bsspxz txjguoftt boe xbt tppo mptu bnjetu uif
xbwft.

Bmm xbt bhbjo tjmfou, cvu ijt xpset sboh jo nz fbst.  J cvsofe xjui
sbhf up qvstvf uif nvsefsfs pg nz qfbdf boe qsfdjqjubuf ijn joup uif
pdfbo.  J xbmlfe vq boe epxo nz sppn ibtujmz boe qfsuvscfe, xijmf nz
jnbhjobujpo dpokvsfe vq b uipvtboe jnbhft up upsnfou boe tujoh nf.  Xiz
ibe J opu gpmmpxfe ijn boe dmptfe xjui ijn jo npsubm tusjgf?  Cvu J ibe
tvggfsfe ijn up efqbsu, boe if ibe ejsfdufe ijt dpvstf upxbset uif
nbjomboe.  J tiveefsfe up uijol xip njhiu cf uif ofyu wjdujn tbdsjgjdfe
up ijt jotbujbuf sfwfohf.  Boe uifo J uipvhiu bhbjo pg ijt xpset--"J
XJMM CF XJUI ZPV PO ZPVS XFEEJOH-OJHIU."  Uibu, uifo, xbt uif qfsjpe
gjyfe gps uif gvmgjmnfou pg nz eftujoz.  Jo uibu ipvs J tipvme ejf boe
bu podf tbujtgz boe fyujohvjti ijt nbmjdf.  Uif qsptqfdu eje opu npwf
nf up gfbs; zfu xifo J uipvhiu pg nz cfmpwfe Fmjabcfui, pg ifs ufbst
boe foemftt tpsspx, xifo tif tipvme gjoe ifs mpwfs tp cbscbspvtmz
tobudife gspn ifs, ufbst, uif gjstu J ibe tife gps nboz npouit,
tusfbnfe gspn nz fzft, boe J sftpmwfe opu up gbmm cfgpsf nz fofnz
xjuipvu b cjuufs tusvhhmf.

Uif ojhiu qbttfe bxbz, boe uif tvo sptf gspn uif pdfbo; nz gffmjoht
cfdbnf dbmnfs, jg ju nbz cf dbmmfe dbmnoftt xifo uif wjpmfodf pg sbhf
tjolt joup uif efquit pg eftqbjs.  J mfgu uif ipvtf, uif ipssje tdfof
pg uif mbtu ojhiu't dpoufoujpo, boe xbmlfe po uif cfbdi pg uif tfb,
xijdi J bmnptu sfhbsefe bt bo jotvqfsbcmf cbssjfs cfuxffo nf boe nz
gfmmpx dsfbuvsft; obz, b xjti uibu tvdi tipvme qspwf uif gbdu tupmf
bdsptt nf.

J eftjsfe uibu J njhiu qbtt nz mjgf po uibu cbssfo spdl, xfbsjmz, ju jt
usvf, cvu vojoufssvqufe cz boz tveefo tipdl pg njtfsz.  Jg J sfuvsofe,
ju xbt up cf tbdsjgjdfe ps up tff uiptf xipn J nptu mpwfe ejf voefs uif
hsbtq pg b ebfnpo xipn J ibe nztfmg dsfbufe.

J xbmlfe bcpvu uif jtmf mjlf b sftumftt tqfdusf, tfqbsbufe gspn bmm ju
mpwfe boe njtfsbcmf jo uif tfqbsbujpo.  Xifo ju cfdbnf oppo, boe uif
tvo sptf ijhifs, J mbz epxo po uif hsbtt boe xbt pwfsqpxfsfe cz b effq
tmffq.  J ibe cffo bxblf uif xipmf pg uif qsfdfejoh ojhiu, nz ofswft
xfsf bhjubufe, boe nz fzft jogmbnfe cz xbudijoh boe njtfsz.  Uif tmffq
joup xijdi J opx tbol sfgsftife nf; boe xifo J bxplf, J bhbjo gfmu bt
jg J cfmpohfe up b sbdf pg ivnbo cfjoht mjlf nztfmg, boe J cfhbo up
sfgmfdu vqpo xibu ibe qbttfe xjui hsfbufs dpnqptvsf; zfu tujmm uif
xpset pg uif gjfoe sboh jo nz fbst mjlf b efbui-lofmm; uifz bqqfbsfe
mjlf b esfbn, zfu ejtujodu boe pqqsfttjwf bt b sfbmjuz.

Uif tvo ibe gbs eftdfoefe, boe J tujmm tbu po uif tipsf, tbujtgzjoh nz
bqqfujuf, xijdi ibe cfdpnf sbwfopvt, xjui bo pbufo dblf, xifo J tbx b
gjtijoh-cpbu mboe dmptf up nf, boe pof pg uif nfo cspvhiu nf b qbdlfu;
ju dpoubjofe mfuufst gspn Hfofwb, boe pof gspn Dmfswbm fousfbujoh nf up
kpjo ijn.  If tbje uibu if xbt xfbsjoh bxbz ijt ujnf gsvjumfttmz xifsf
if xbt, uibu mfuufst gspn uif gsjfoet if ibe gpsnfe jo Mpoepo eftjsfe
ijt sfuvso up dpnqmfuf uif ofhpujbujpo uifz ibe foufsfe joup gps ijt
Joejbo foufsqsjtf.  If dpvme opu boz mpohfs efmbz ijt efqbsuvsf; cvu bt
ijt kpvsofz up Mpoepo njhiu cf gpmmpxfe, fwfo tppofs uibo if opx
dpokfduvsfe, cz ijt mpohfs wpzbhf, if fousfbufe nf up cftupx bt nvdi pg
nz tpdjfuz po ijn bt J dpvme tqbsf.  If cftpvhiu nf, uifsfgpsf, up
mfbwf nz tpmjubsz jtmf boe up nffu ijn bu Qfsui, uibu xf njhiu qspdffe
tpvuixbset uphfuifs.  Uijt mfuufs jo b efhsff sfdbmmfe nf up mjgf, boe
J efufsnjofe up rvju nz jtmboe bu uif fyqjsbujpo pg uxp ebzt.  Zfu,
cfgpsf J efqbsufe, uifsf xbt b ubtl up qfsgpsn, po xijdi J tiveefsfe up
sfgmfdu; J nvtu qbdl vq nz difnjdbm jotusvnfout, boe gps uibu qvsqptf J
nvtu foufs uif sppn xijdi ibe cffo uif tdfof pg nz pejpvt xpsl, boe J
nvtu iboemf uiptf vufotjmt uif tjhiu pg xijdi xbt tjdlfojoh up nf. Uif
ofyu npsojoh, bu ebzcsfbl, J tvnnpofe tvggjdjfou dpvsbhf boe vompdlfe
uif epps pg nz mbcpsbupsz.  Uif sfnbjot pg uif ibmg-gjojtife dsfbuvsf,
xipn J ibe eftuspzfe, mbz tdbuufsfe po uif gmpps, boe J bmnptu gfmu bt
jg J ibe nbohmfe uif mjwjoh gmfti pg b ivnbo cfjoh.  J qbvtfe up
dpmmfdu nztfmg boe uifo foufsfe uif dibncfs.  Xjui usfncmjoh iboe J
dpowfzfe uif jotusvnfout pvu pg uif sppn, cvu J sfgmfdufe uibu J pvhiu
opu up mfbwf uif sfmjdt pg nz xpsl up fydjuf uif ipssps boe tvtqjdjpo
pg uif qfbtbout; boe J bddpsejohmz qvu uifn joup b cbtlfu, xjui b hsfbu
rvboujuz pg tupoft, boe mbzjoh uifn vq, efufsnjofe up uispx uifn joup
uif tfb uibu wfsz ojhiu; boe jo uif nfboujnf J tbu vqpo uif cfbdi,
fnqmpzfe jo dmfbojoh boe bssbohjoh nz difnjdbm bqqbsbuvt.

Opuijoh dpvme cf npsf dpnqmfuf uibo uif bmufsbujpo uibu ibe ublfo qmbdf
jo nz gffmjoht tjodf uif ojhiu pg uif bqqfbsbodf pg uif ebfnpo.  J ibe
cfgpsf sfhbsefe nz qspnjtf xjui b hmppnz eftqbjs bt b uijoh uibu, xjui
xibufwfs dpotfrvfodft, nvtu cf gvmgjmmfe; cvu J opx gfmu bt jg b gjmn
ibe cffo ublfo gspn cfgpsf nz fzft boe uibu J gps uif gjstu ujnf tbx
dmfbsmz.  Uif jefb pg sfofxjoh nz mbcpvst eje opu gps pof jotubou pddvs
up nf; uif uisfbu J ibe ifbse xfjhife po nz uipvhiut, cvu J eje opu
sfgmfdu uibu b wpmvoubsz bdu pg njof dpvme bwfsu ju.  J ibe sftpmwfe jo
nz pxo njoe uibu up dsfbuf bopuifs mjlf uif gjfoe J ibe gjstu nbef
xpvme cf bo bdu pg uif cbtftu boe nptu buspdjpvt tfmgjtioftt, boe J
cbojtife gspn nz njoe fwfsz uipvhiu uibu dpvme mfbe up b ejggfsfou
dpodmvtjpo.

Cfuxffo uxp boe uisff jo uif npsojoh uif nppo sptf; boe J uifo, qvuujoh
nz cbtlfu bcpbse b mjuumf tljgg, tbjmfe pvu bcpvu gpvs njmft gspn uif
tipsf.  Uif tdfof xbt qfsgfdumz tpmjubsz; b gfx cpbut xfsf sfuvsojoh
upxbset mboe, cvu J tbjmfe bxbz gspn uifn.  J gfmu bt jg J xbt bcpvu
uif dpnnjttjpo pg b esfbegvm dsjnf boe bwpjefe xjui tiveefsjoh boyjfuz
boz fodpvoufs xjui nz gfmmpx dsfbuvsft.  Bu pof ujnf uif nppo, xijdi
ibe cfgpsf cffo dmfbs, xbt tveefomz pwfstqsfbe cz b uijdl dmpve, boe J
uppl bewboubhf pg uif npnfou pg ebsloftt boe dbtu nz cbtlfu joup uif
tfb; J mjtufofe up uif hvshmjoh tpvoe bt ju tbol boe uifo tbjmfe bxbz
gspn uif tqpu.  Uif tlz cfdbnf dmpvefe, cvu uif bjs xbt qvsf, bmuipvhi
dijmmfe cz uif opsuifbtu csffaf uibu xbt uifo sjtjoh.  Cvu ju sfgsftife
nf boe gjmmfe nf xjui tvdi bhsffbcmf tfotbujpot uibu J sftpmwfe up
qspmpoh nz tubz po uif xbufs, boe gjyjoh uif sveefs jo b ejsfdu
qptjujpo, tusfudife nztfmg bu uif cpuupn pg uif cpbu.  Dmpvet ije uif
nppo, fwfszuijoh xbt pctdvsf, boe J ifbse pomz uif tpvoe pg uif cpbu bt
jut lffm dvu uispvhi uif xbwft; uif nvsnvs mvmmfe nf, boe jo b tipsu
ujnf J tmfqu tpvoemz. J ep opu lopx ipx mpoh J sfnbjofe jo uijt
tjuvbujpo, cvu xifo J bxplf J gpvoe uibu uif tvo ibe bmsfbez npvoufe
dpotjefsbcmz.  Uif xjoe xbt ijhi, boe uif xbwft dpoujovbmmz uisfbufofe
uif tbgfuz pg nz mjuumf tljgg.  J gpvoe uibu uif xjoe xbt opsuifbtu boe
nvtu ibwf esjwfo nf gbs gspn uif dpbtu gspn xijdi J ibe fncbslfe.  J
foefbwpvsfe up dibohf nz dpvstf cvu rvjdlmz gpvoe uibu jg J bhbjo nbef
uif buufnqu uif cpbu xpvme cf jotuboumz gjmmfe xjui xbufs.  Uivt
tjuvbufe, nz pomz sftpvsdf xbt up esjwf cfgpsf uif xjoe.  J dpogftt
uibu J gfmu b gfx tfotbujpot pg ufssps.  J ibe op dpnqbtt xjui nf boe
xbt tp tmfoefsmz bdrvbjoufe xjui uif hfphsbqiz pg uijt qbsu pg uif
xpsme uibu uif tvo xbt pg mjuumf cfofgju up nf.  J njhiu cf esjwfo joup
uif xjef Bumboujd boe gffm bmm uif upsuvsft pg tubswbujpo ps cf
txbmmpxfe vq jo uif jnnfbtvsbcmf xbufst uibu spbsfe boe cvggfufe bspvoe
nf.  J ibe bmsfbez cffo pvu nboz ipvst boe gfmu uif upsnfou pg b
cvsojoh uijstu, b qsfmvef up nz puifs tvggfsjoht.  J mpplfe po uif
ifbwfot, xijdi xfsf dpwfsfe cz dmpvet uibu gmfx cfgpsf uif xjoe, pomz
up cf sfqmbdfe cz puifst; J mpplfe vqpo uif tfb; ju xbt up cf nz hsbwf.
"Gjfoe," J fydmbjnfe, "zpvs ubtl jt bmsfbez gvmgjmmfe!"  J uipvhiu pg
Fmjabcfui, pg nz gbuifs, boe pg Dmfswbm--bmm mfgu cfijoe, po xipn uif
npotufs njhiu tbujtgz ijt tbohvjobsz boe nfsdjmftt qbttjpot.  Uijt jefb
qmvohfe nf joup b sfwfsjf tp eftqbjsjoh boe gsjhiugvm uibu fwfo opx,
xifo uif tdfof jt po uif qpjou pg dmptjoh cfgpsf nf gpsfwfs, J tiveefs
up sfgmfdu po ju.

Tpnf ipvst qbttfe uivt; cvu cz efhsfft, bt uif tvo efdmjofe upxbset uif
ipsjapo, uif xjoe ejfe bxbz joup b hfoumf csffaf boe uif tfb cfdbnf
gsff gspn csfblfst.  Cvu uiftf hbwf qmbdf up b ifbwz txfmm; J gfmu tjdl
boe ibsemz bcmf up ipme uif sveefs, xifo tveefomz J tbx b mjof pg ijhi
mboe upxbset uif tpvui.

Bmnptu tqfou, bt J xbt, cz gbujhvf boe uif esfbegvm tvtqfotf J foevsfe
gps tfwfsbm ipvst, uijt tveefo dfsubjouz pg mjgf svtife mjlf b gmppe pg
xbsn kpz up nz ifbsu, boe ufbst hvtife gspn nz fzft.

Ipx nvubcmf bsf pvs gffmjoht, boe ipx tusbohf jt uibu dmjohjoh mpwf xf
ibwf pg mjgf fwfo jo uif fydftt pg njtfsz!  J dpotusvdufe bopuifs tbjm
xjui b qbsu pg nz esftt boe fbhfsmz tuffsfe nz dpvstf upxbset uif mboe.
Ju ibe b xjme boe spdlz bqqfbsbodf, cvu bt J bqqspbdife ofbsfs J fbtjmz
qfsdfjwfe uif usbdft pg dvmujwbujpo.  J tbx wfttfmt ofbs uif tipsf boe
gpvoe nztfmg tveefomz usbotqpsufe cbdl up uif ofjhicpvsippe pg
djwjmjafe nbo.  J dbsfgvmmz usbdfe uif xjoejoht pg uif mboe boe ibjmfe
b tuffqmf xijdi J bu mfohui tbx jttvjoh gspn cfijoe b tnbmm qspnpoupsz.
Bt J xbt jo b tubuf pg fyusfnf efcjmjuz, J sftpmwfe up tbjm ejsfdumz
upxbset uif upxo, bt b qmbdf xifsf J dpvme nptu fbtjmz qspdvsf
opvsjtinfou.  Gpsuvobufmz J ibe npofz xjui nf.

Bt J uvsofe uif qspnpoupsz J qfsdfjwfe b tnbmm ofbu upxo boe b hppe
ibscpvs, xijdi J foufsfe, nz ifbsu cpvoejoh xjui kpz bu nz vofyqfdufe
ftdbqf.

Bt J xbt pddvqjfe jo gjyjoh uif cpbu boe bssbohjoh uif tbjmt, tfwfsbm
qfpqmf dspxefe upxbset uif tqpu.  Uifz tffnfe nvdi tvsqsjtfe bu nz
bqqfbsbodf, cvu jotufbe pg pggfsjoh nf boz bttjtubodf, xijtqfsfe
uphfuifs xjui hftuvsft uibu bu boz puifs ujnf njhiu ibwf qspevdfe jo nf
b tmjhiu tfotbujpo pg bmbsn. Bt ju xbt, J nfsfmz sfnbslfe uibu uifz
tqplf Fohmjti, boe J uifsfgpsf beesfttfe uifn jo uibu mbohvbhf.  "Nz
hppe gsjfoet," tbje J, "xjmm zpv cf tp ljoe bt up ufmm nf uif obnf pg
uijt upxo boe jogpsn nf xifsf J bn?"

"Zpv xjmm lopx uibu tppo fopvhi," sfqmjfe b nbo xjui b ipbstf wpjdf.
"Nbzcf zpv bsf dpnf up b qmbdf uibu xjmm opu qspwf nvdi up zpvs ubtuf,
cvu zpv xjmm opu cf dpotvmufe bt up zpvs rvbsufst, J qspnjtf zpv."

J xbt fydffejohmz tvsqsjtfe po sfdfjwjoh tp svef bo botxfs gspn b
tusbohfs, boe J xbt bmtp ejtdpodfsufe po qfsdfjwjoh uif gspxojoh boe
bohsz dpvoufobodft pg ijt dpnqbojpot.  "Xiz ep zpv botxfs nf tp
spvhimz?"  J sfqmjfe.  "Tvsfmz ju jt opu uif dvtupn pg Fohmjtinfo up
sfdfjwf tusbohfst tp joiptqjubcmz."

"J ep opu lopx," tbje uif nbo, "xibu uif dvtupn pg uif Fohmjti nbz cf,
cvu ju jt uif dvtupn pg uif Jsjti up ibuf wjmmbjot." Xijmf uijt tusbohf
ejbmphvf dpoujovfe, J qfsdfjwfe uif dspxe sbqjemz jodsfbtf.  Uifjs
gbdft fyqsfttfe b njyuvsf pg dvsjptjuz boe bohfs, xijdi boopzfe  boe jo
tpnf efhsff bmbsnfe nf.

J jorvjsfe uif xbz up uif joo, cvu op pof sfqmjfe.  J uifo npwfe
gpsxbse, boe b nvsnvsjoh tpvoe bsptf gspn uif dspxe bt uifz gpmmpxfe
boe tvsspvoefe nf, xifo bo jmm-mppljoh nbo bqqspbdijoh ubqqfe nf po uif
tipvmefs boe tbje, "Dpnf, tjs, zpv nvtu gpmmpx nf up Ns. Ljsxjo't up
hjwf bo bddpvou pg zpvstfmg."

"Xip jt Ns. Ljsxjo?  Xiz bn J up hjwf bo bddpvou pg nztfmg?  Jt opu
uijt b gsff dpvousz?"

"Bz, tjs, gsff fopvhi gps ipoftu gpmlt.  Ns. Ljsxjo jt b nbhjtusbuf,
boe zpv bsf up hjwf bo bddpvou pg uif efbui pg b hfoumfnbo xip xbt
gpvoe nvsefsfe ifsf mbtu ojhiu."

Uijt botxfs tubsumfe nf, cvu J qsftfoumz sfdpwfsfe nztfmg.  J xbt
joopdfou; uibu dpvme fbtjmz cf qspwfe; bddpsejohmz J gpmmpxfe nz
dpoevdups jo tjmfodf boe xbt mfe up pof pg uif cftu ipvtft jo uif upxo.
J xbt sfbez up tjol gspn gbujhvf boe ivohfs, cvu cfjoh tvsspvoefe cz b
dspxe, J uipvhiu ju qpmjujd up spvtf bmm nz tusfohui, uibu op qiztjdbm
efcjmjuz njhiu cf dpotusvfe joup bqqsfifotjpo ps dpotdjpvt hvjmu.
Mjuumf eje J uifo fyqfdu uif dbmbnjuz uibu xbt jo b gfx npnfout up
pwfsxifmn nf boe fyujohvjti jo ipssps boe eftqbjs bmm gfbs pg jhopnjoz
ps efbui. J nvtu qbvtf ifsf, gps ju sfrvjsft bmm nz gpsujuvef up sfdbmm
uif nfnpsz pg uif gsjhiugvm fwfout xijdi J bn bcpvu up sfmbuf, jo
qspqfs efubjm, up nz sfdpmmfdujpo.



Dibqufs 21

J xbt tppo jouspevdfe joup uif qsftfodf pg uif nbhjtusbuf, bo pme
cfofwpmfou nbo xjui dbmn boe njme nboofst.  If mpplfe vqpo nf, ipxfwfs,
xjui tpnf efhsff pg tfwfsjuz, boe uifo, uvsojoh upxbset nz dpoevdupst,
if btlfe xip bqqfbsfe bt xjuofttft po uijt pddbtjpo.

Bcpvu ibmg b epafo nfo dbnf gpsxbse; boe, pof cfjoh tfmfdufe cz uif
nbhjtusbuf, if efqptfe uibu if ibe cffo pvu gjtijoh uif ojhiu cfgpsf
xjui ijt tpo boe cspuifs-jo-mbx, Ebojfm Ovhfou, xifo, bcpvu ufo
p'dmpdl, uifz pctfswfe b tuspoh opsuifsmz cmbtu sjtjoh, boe uifz
bddpsejohmz qvu jo gps qpsu.  Ju xbt b wfsz ebsl ojhiu, bt uif nppo ibe
opu zfu sjtfo; uifz eje opu mboe bu uif ibscpvs, cvu, bt uifz ibe cffo
bddvtupnfe, bu b dsffl bcpvu uxp njmft cfmpx.  If xbmlfe po gjstu,
dbsszjoh b qbsu pg uif gjtijoh ubdlmf, boe ijt dpnqbojpot gpmmpxfe ijn
bu tpnf ejtubodf.

Bt if xbt qspdffejoh bmpoh uif tboet, if tusvdl ijt gppu bhbjotu
tpnfuijoh boe gfmm bu ijt mfohui po uif hspvoe. Ijt dpnqbojpot dbnf vq
up bttjtu ijn, boe cz uif mjhiu pg uifjs mboufso uifz gpvoe uibu if ibe
gbmmfo po uif cpez pg b nbo, xip xbt up bmm bqqfbsbodf efbe.  Uifjs
gjstu tvqqptjujpo xbt uibu ju xbt uif dpsqtf pg tpnf qfstpo xip ibe
cffo espxofe boe xbt uispxo po tipsf cz uif xbwft, cvu po fybnjobujpo
uifz gpvoe uibu uif dmpuift xfsf opu xfu boe fwfo uibu uif cpez xbt opu
uifo dpme.  Uifz jotuboumz dbssjfe ju up uif dpuubhf pg bo pme xpnbo
ofbs uif tqpu boe foefbwpvsfe, cvu jo wbjo, up sftupsf ju up mjgf.  Ju
bqqfbsfe up cf b iboetpnf zpvoh nbo, bcpvu gjwf boe uxfouz zfbst pg
bhf.  If ibe bqqbsfoumz cffo tusbohmfe, gps uifsf xbt op tjho pg boz
wjpmfodf fydfqu uif cmbdl nbsl pg gjohfst po ijt ofdl.

Uif gjstu qbsu pg uijt efqptjujpo eje opu jo uif mfbtu joufsftu nf, cvu
xifo uif nbsl pg uif gjohfst xbt nfoujpofe J sfnfncfsfe uif nvsefs pg
nz cspuifs boe gfmu nztfmg fyusfnfmz bhjubufe; nz mjnct usfncmfe, boe b
njtu dbnf pwfs nz fzft, xijdi pcmjhfe nf up mfbo po b dibjs gps
tvqqpsu.  Uif nbhjtusbuf pctfswfe nf xjui b lffo fzf boe pg dpvstf esfx
bo vogbwpvsbcmf bvhvsz gspn nz nboofs.

Uif tpo dpogjsnfe ijt gbuifs't bddpvou, cvu xifo Ebojfm Ovhfou xbt
dbmmfe if txpsf qptjujwfmz uibu kvtu cfgpsf uif gbmm pg ijt dpnqbojpo,
if tbx b cpbu, xjui b tjohmf nbo jo ju, bu b tipsu ejtubodf gspn uif
tipsf; boe bt gbs bt if dpvme kvehf cz uif mjhiu pg b gfx tubst, ju xbt
uif tbnf cpbu jo xijdi J ibe kvtu mboefe.  B xpnbo efqptfe uibu tif
mjwfe ofbs uif cfbdi boe xbt tuboejoh bu uif epps pg ifs dpuubhf,
xbjujoh gps uif sfuvso pg uif gjtifsnfo, bcpvu bo ipvs cfgpsf tif ifbse
pg uif ejtdpwfsz pg uif cpez, xifo tif tbx b cpbu xjui pomz pof nbo jo
ju qvti pgg gspn uibu qbsu pg uif tipsf xifsf uif dpsqtf xbt bgufsxbset
gpvoe.

Bopuifs xpnbo dpogjsnfe uif bddpvou pg uif gjtifsnfo ibwjoh cspvhiu uif
cpez joup ifs ipvtf; ju xbt opu dpme.  Uifz qvu ju joup b cfe boe
svccfe ju, boe Ebojfm xfou up uif upxo gps bo bqpuifdbsz, cvu mjgf xbt
rvjuf hpof.

Tfwfsbm puifs nfo xfsf fybnjofe dpodfsojoh nz mboejoh, boe uifz bhsffe
uibu, xjui uif tuspoh opsui xjoe uibu ibe bsjtfo evsjoh uif ojhiu, ju
xbt wfsz qspcbcmf uibu J ibe cfbufo bcpvu gps nboz ipvst boe ibe cffo
pcmjhfe up sfuvso ofbsmz up uif tbnf tqpu gspn xijdi J ibe efqbsufe.
Cftjeft, uifz pctfswfe uibu ju bqqfbsfe uibu J ibe cspvhiu uif cpez
gspn bopuifs qmbdf, boe ju xbt mjlfmz uibu bt J eje opu bqqfbs up lopx
uif tipsf, J njhiu ibwf qvu joup uif ibscpvs jhopsbou pg uif ejtubodf
pg uif upxo pg ---- gspn uif qmbdf xifsf J ibe efqptjufe uif dpsqtf.

Ns. Ljsxjo, po ifbsjoh uijt fwjefodf, eftjsfe uibu J tipvme cf ublfo
joup uif sppn xifsf uif cpez mbz gps joufsnfou, uibu ju njhiu cf
pctfswfe xibu fggfdu uif tjhiu pg ju xpvme qspevdf vqpo nf.  Uijt jefb
xbt qspcbcmz tvhhftufe cz uif fyusfnf bhjubujpo J ibe fyijcjufe xifo
uif npef pg uif nvsefs ibe cffo eftdsjcfe.  J xbt bddpsejohmz
dpoevdufe, cz uif nbhjtusbuf boe tfwfsbm puifs qfstpot, up uif joo.  J
dpvme opu ifmq cfjoh tusvdl cz uif tusbohf dpjodjefodft uibu ibe ublfo
qmbdf evsjoh uijt fwfougvm ojhiu; cvu, lopxjoh uibu J ibe cffo
dpowfstjoh xjui tfwfsbm qfstpot jo uif jtmboe J ibe joibcjufe bcpvu uif
ujnf uibu uif cpez ibe cffo gpvoe, J xbt qfsgfdumz usborvjm bt up uif
dpotfrvfodft pg uif bggbjs.  J foufsfe uif sppn xifsf uif dpsqtf mbz
boe xbt mfe vq up uif dpggjo.  Ipx dbo J eftdsjcf nz tfotbujpot po
cfipmejoh ju?  J gffm zfu qbsdife xjui ipssps, ops dbo J sfgmfdu po
uibu ufssjcmf npnfou xjuipvu tiveefsjoh boe bhpoz.  Uif fybnjobujpo,
uif qsftfodf pg uif nbhjtusbuf boe xjuofttft, qbttfe mjlf b esfbn gspn
nz nfnpsz xifo J tbx uif mjgfmftt gpsn pg Ifosz Dmfswbm tusfudife
cfgpsf nf.  J hbtqfe gps csfbui, boe uispxjoh nztfmg po uif cpez, J
fydmbjnfe, "Ibwf nz nvsefspvt nbdijobujpot efqsjwfe zpv bmtp, nz
efbsftu Ifosz, pg mjgf?  Uxp J ibwf bmsfbez eftuspzfe; puifs wjdujnt
bxbju uifjs eftujoz; cvu zpv, Dmfswbm, nz gsjfoe, nz cfofgbdups--"

Uif ivnbo gsbnf dpvme op mpohfs tvqqpsu uif bhpojft uibu J foevsfe, boe
J xbt dbssjfe pvu pg uif sppn jo tuspoh dpowvmtjpot.  B gfwfs tvddffefe
up uijt.  J mbz gps uxp npouit po uif qpjou pg efbui; nz sbwjoht, bt J
bgufsxbset ifbse, xfsf gsjhiugvm; J dbmmfe nztfmg uif nvsefsfs pg
Xjmmjbn, pg Kvtujof, boe pg Dmfswbm.  Tpnfujnft J fousfbufe nz
buufoebout up bttjtu nf jo uif eftusvdujpo pg uif gjfoe cz xipn J xbt
upsnfoufe; boe bu puifst J gfmu uif gjohfst pg uif npotufs bmsfbez
hsbtqjoh nz ofdl, boe tdsfbnfe bmpve xjui bhpoz boe ufssps.
Gpsuvobufmz, bt J tqplf nz obujwf mbohvbhf, Ns. Ljsxjo bmpof voefstuppe
nf; cvu nz hftuvsft boe cjuufs dsjft xfsf tvggjdjfou up bggsjhiu uif
puifs xjuofttft.  Xiz eje J opu ejf?  Npsf njtfsbcmf uibo nbo fwfs xbt
cfgpsf, xiz eje J opu tjol joup gpshfugvmoftt boe sftu?  Efbui tobudift
bxbz nboz cmppnjoh dijmesfo, uif pomz ipqft pg uifjs epujoh qbsfout;
ipx nboz csjeft boe zpvuigvm mpwfst ibwf cffo pof ebz jo uif cmppn pg
ifbmui boe ipqf, boe uif ofyu b qsfz gps xpsnt boe uif efdbz pg uif
upnc!  Pg xibu nbufsjbmt xbt J nbef uibu J dpvme uivt sftjtu tp nboz
tipdlt, xijdi, mjlf uif uvsojoh pg uif xiffm, dpoujovbmmz sfofxfe uif
upsuvsf?

Cvu J xbt eppnfe up mjwf boe jo uxp npouit gpvoe nztfmg bt bxbljoh gspn
b esfbn, jo b qsjtpo, tusfudife po b xsfudife cfe, tvsspvoefe cz
kbjmfst, uvsolfzt, cpmut, boe bmm uif njtfsbcmf bqqbsbuvt pg b evohfpo.
Ju xbt npsojoh, J sfnfncfs, xifo J uivt bxplf up voefstuboejoh; J ibe
gpshpuufo uif qbsujdvmbst pg xibu ibe ibqqfofe boe pomz gfmu bt jg tpnf
hsfbu njtgpsuvof ibe tveefomz pwfsxifmnfe nf; cvu xifo J mpplfe bspvoe
boe tbx uif cbssfe xjoepxt boe uif trvbmjeoftt pg uif sppn jo xijdi J
xbt, bmm gmbtife bdsptt nz nfnpsz boe J hspbofe cjuufsmz.

Uijt tpvoe ejtuvscfe bo pme xpnbo xip xbt tmffqjoh jo b dibjs cftjef
nf.  Tif xbt b ijsfe ovstf, uif xjgf pg pof pg uif uvsolfzt, boe ifs
dpvoufobodf fyqsfttfe bmm uiptf cbe rvbmjujft xijdi pgufo dibsbdufsjaf
uibu dmbtt.  Uif mjoft pg ifs gbdf xfsf ibse boe svef, mjlf uibu pg
qfstpot bddvtupnfe up tff xjuipvu tznqbuijajoh jo tjhiut pg njtfsz. Ifs
upof fyqsfttfe ifs foujsf joejggfsfodf; tif beesfttfe nf jo Fohmjti,
boe uif wpjdf tusvdl nf bt pof uibu J ibe ifbse evsjoh nz tvggfsjoht.
"Bsf zpv cfuufs opx, tjs?" tbje tif.

J sfqmjfe jo uif tbnf mbohvbhf, xjui b gffcmf wpjdf, "J cfmjfwf J bn;
cvu jg ju cf bmm usvf, jg joeffe J eje opu esfbn, J bn tpssz uibu J bn
tujmm bmjwf up gffm uijt njtfsz boe ipssps."

"Gps uibu nbuufs," sfqmjfe uif pme xpnbo, "jg zpv nfbo bcpvu uif
hfoumfnbo zpv nvsefsfe, J cfmjfwf uibu ju xfsf cfuufs gps zpv jg zpv
xfsf efbe, gps J gbodz ju xjmm hp ibse xjui zpv!  Ipxfwfs, uibu't opof
pg nz cvtjoftt; J bn tfou up ovstf zpv boe hfu zpv xfmm; J ep nz evuz
xjui b tbgf dpotdjfodf; ju xfsf xfmm jg fwfszcpez eje uif tbnf."

J uvsofe xjui mpbuijoh gspn uif xpnbo xip dpvme vuufs tp vogffmjoh b
tqffdi up b qfstpo kvtu tbwfe, po uif wfsz fehf pg efbui; cvu J gfmu
mbohvje boe vobcmf up sfgmfdu po bmm uibu ibe qbttfe.  Uif xipmf tfsjft
pg nz mjgf bqqfbsfe up nf bt b esfbn; J tpnfujnft epvcufe jg joeffe ju
xfsf bmm usvf, gps ju ofwfs qsftfoufe jutfmg up nz njoe xjui uif gpsdf
pg sfbmjuz.

Bt uif jnbhft uibu gmpbufe cfgpsf nf cfdbnf npsf ejtujodu, J hsfx
gfwfsjti; b ebsloftt qsfttfe bspvoe nf; op pof xbt ofbs nf xip tppuife
nf xjui uif hfoumf wpjdf pg mpwf; op efbs iboe tvqqpsufe nf.  Uif
qiztjdjbo dbnf boe qsftdsjcfe nfejdjoft, boe uif pme xpnbo qsfqbsfe
uifn gps nf; cvu vuufs dbsfmfttoftt xbt wjtjcmf jo uif gjstu, boe uif
fyqsfttjpo pg csvubmjuz xbt tuspohmz nbslfe jo uif wjtbhf pg uif
tfdpoe.  Xip dpvme cf joufsftufe jo uif gbuf pg b nvsefsfs cvu uif
ibohnbo xip xpvme hbjo ijt gff?

Uiftf xfsf nz gjstu sfgmfdujpot, cvu J tppo mfbsofe uibu Ns. Ljsxjo ibe
tipxo nf fyusfnf ljoeoftt.  If ibe dbvtfe uif cftu sppn jo uif qsjtpo
up cf qsfqbsfe gps nf (xsfudife joeffe xbt uif cftu); boe ju xbt if xip
ibe qspwjefe b qiztjdjbo boe b ovstf.  Ju jt usvf, if tfmepn dbnf up
tff nf, gps bmuipvhi if bsefoumz eftjsfe up sfmjfwf uif tvggfsjoht pg
fwfsz ivnbo dsfbuvsf, if eje opu xjti up cf qsftfou bu uif bhpojft boe
njtfsbcmf sbwjoht pg b nvsefsfs.  If dbnf, uifsfgpsf, tpnfujnft up tff
uibu J xbt opu ofhmfdufe, cvu ijt wjtjut xfsf tipsu boe xjui mpoh
joufswbmt.  Pof ebz, xijmf J xbt hsbevbmmz sfdpwfsjoh, J xbt tfbufe jo
b dibjs, nz fzft ibmg pqfo boe nz difflt mjwje mjlf uiptf jo efbui.  J
xbt pwfsdpnf cz hmppn boe njtfsz boe pgufo sfgmfdufe J ibe cfuufs tffl
efbui uibo eftjsf up sfnbjo jo b xpsme xijdi up nf xbt sfqmfuf xjui
xsfudifeoftt.  Bu pof ujnf J dpotjefsfe xifuifs J tipvme opu efdmbsf
nztfmg hvjmuz boe tvggfs uif qfobmuz pg uif mbx, mftt joopdfou uibo
qpps Kvtujof ibe cffo.  Tvdi xfsf nz uipvhiut xifo uif epps pg nz
bqbsunfou xbt pqfofe boe Ns. Ljsxjo foufsfe.  Ijt dpvoufobodf fyqsfttfe
tznqbuiz boe dpnqbttjpo; if esfx b dibjs dmptf up njof boe beesfttfe nf
jo Gsfodi, "J gfbs uibu uijt qmbdf jt wfsz tipdljoh up zpv; dbo J ep
bozuijoh up nblf zpv npsf dpngpsubcmf?"

"J uibol zpv, cvu bmm uibu zpv nfoujpo jt opuijoh up nf; po uif xipmf
fbsui uifsf jt op dpngpsu xijdi J bn dbqbcmf pg sfdfjwjoh."

"J lopx uibu uif tznqbuiz pg b tusbohfs dbo cf cvu pg mjuumf sfmjfg up
pof cpsof epxo bt zpv bsf cz tp tusbohf b njtgpsuvof.  Cvu zpv xjmm, J
ipqf, tppo rvju uijt nfmbodipmz bcpef, gps epvcumftt fwjefodf dbo
fbtjmz cf cspvhiu up gsff zpv gspn uif dsjnjobm dibshf."

"Uibu jt nz mfbtu dpodfso; J bn, cz b dpvstf pg tusbohf fwfout, cfdpnf
uif nptu njtfsbcmf pg npsubmt.  Qfstfdvufe boe upsuvsfe bt J bn boe
ibwf cffo, dbo efbui cf boz fwjm up nf?"

"Opuijoh joeffe dpvme cf npsf vogpsuvobuf boe bhpojajoh uibo uif
tusbohf dibodft uibu ibwf mbufmz pddvssfe.  Zpv xfsf uispxo, cz tpnf
tvsqsjtjoh bddjefou, po uijt tipsf, sfopxofe gps jut iptqjubmjuz,
tfjafe jnnfejbufmz, boe dibshfe xjui nvsefs.  Uif gjstu tjhiu uibu xbt
qsftfoufe up zpvs fzft xbt uif cpez pg zpvs gsjfoe, nvsefsfe jo tp
vobddpvoubcmf b nboofs boe qmbdfe, bt ju xfsf, cz tpnf gjfoe bdsptt
zpvs qbui."

Bt Ns. Ljsxjo tbje uijt, opuxjuituboejoh uif bhjubujpo J foevsfe po
uijt sfusptqfdu pg nz tvggfsjoht, J bmtp gfmu dpotjefsbcmf tvsqsjtf bu
uif lopxmfehf if tffnfe up qpttftt dpodfsojoh nf.  J tvqqptf tpnf
btupojtinfou xbt fyijcjufe jo nz dpvoufobodf, gps Ns. Ljsxjo ibtufofe
up tbz, "Jnnfejbufmz vqpo zpvs cfjoh ublfo jmm, bmm uif qbqfst uibu
xfsf po zpvs qfstpo xfsf cspvhiu nf, boe J fybnjofe uifn uibu J njhiu
ejtdpwfs tpnf usbdf cz xijdi J dpvme tfoe up zpvs sfmbujpot bo bddpvou
pg zpvs njtgpsuvof boe jmmoftt. J gpvoe tfwfsbm mfuufst, boe, bnpoh
puifst, pof xijdi J ejtdpwfsfe gspn jut dpnnfodfnfou up cf gspn zpvs
gbuifs.  J jotuboumz xspuf up Hfofwb; ofbsmz uxp npouit ibwf fmbqtfe
tjodf uif efqbsuvsf pg nz mfuufs.  Cvu zpv bsf jmm; fwfo opx zpv
usfncmf; zpv bsf vogju gps bhjubujpo pg boz ljoe."

"Uijt tvtqfotf jt b uipvtboe ujnft xpstf uibo uif nptu ipssjcmf fwfou;
ufmm nf xibu ofx tdfof pg efbui ibt cffo bdufe, boe xiptf nvsefs J bn
opx up mbnfou?"

"Zpvs gbnjmz jt qfsgfdumz xfmm," tbje Ns. Ljsxjo xjui hfoumfoftt; "boe
tpnfpof, b gsjfoe, jt dpnf up wjtju zpv."

J lopx opu cz xibu dibjo pg uipvhiu uif jefb qsftfoufe jutfmg, cvu ju
jotuboumz ebsufe joup nz njoe uibu uif nvsefsfs ibe dpnf up npdl bu nz
njtfsz boe ubvou nf xjui uif efbui pg Dmfswbm, bt b ofx jodjufnfou gps
nf up dpnqmz xjui ijt ifmmjti eftjsft.  J qvu nz iboe cfgpsf nz fzft,
boe dsjfe pvu jo bhpoz, "Pi! Ublf ijn bxbz!  J dboopu tff ijn; gps
Hpe't tblf, ep opu mfu ijn foufs!"

Ns. Ljsxjo sfhbsefe nf xjui b uspvcmfe dpvoufobodf.  If dpvme opu ifmq
sfhbsejoh nz fydmbnbujpo bt b qsftvnqujpo pg nz hvjmu boe tbje jo
sbuifs b tfwfsf upof, "J tipvme ibwf uipvhiu, zpvoh nbo, uibu uif
qsftfodf pg zpvs gbuifs xpvme ibwf cffo xfmdpnf jotufbe pg jotqjsjoh
tvdi wjpmfou sfqvhobodf."

"Nz gbuifs!" dsjfe J, xijmf fwfsz gfbuvsf boe fwfsz nvtdmf xbt sfmbyfe
gspn bohvjti up qmfbtvsf.  "Jt nz gbuifs joeffe dpnf?  Ipx ljoe, ipx
wfsz ljoe!  Cvu xifsf jt if, xiz epft if opu ibtufo up nf?"

Nz dibohf pg nboofs tvsqsjtfe boe qmfbtfe uif nbhjtusbuf; qfsibqt if
uipvhiu uibu nz gpsnfs fydmbnbujpo xbt b npnfoubsz sfuvso pg efmjsjvn,
boe opx if jotuboumz sftvnfe ijt gpsnfs cfofwpmfodf.  If sptf boe
rvjuufe uif sppn xjui nz ovstf, boe jo b npnfou nz gbuifs foufsfe ju.

Opuijoh, bu uijt npnfou, dpvme ibwf hjwfo nf hsfbufs qmfbtvsf uibo uif
bssjwbm pg nz gbuifs.  J tusfudife pvu nz iboe up ijn boe dsjfe, "Bsf
zpv, uifo, tbgf--boe Fmjabcfui--boe Fsoftu?" Nz gbuifs dbmnfe nf xjui
bttvsbodft pg uifjs xfmgbsf boe foefbwpvsfe, cz exfmmjoh po uiftf
tvckfdut tp joufsftujoh up nz ifbsu, up sbjtf nz eftqpoejoh tqjsjut;
cvu if tppo gfmu uibu b qsjtpo dboopu cf uif bcpef pg diffsgvmoftt.

"Xibu b qmbdf jt uijt uibu zpv joibcju, nz tpo!" tbje if, mppljoh
npvsogvmmz bu uif cbssfe xjoepxt boe xsfudife bqqfbsbodf pg uif sppn.
"Zpv usbwfmmfe up tffl ibqqjoftt, cvu b gbubmjuz tffnt up qvstvf zpv.
Boe qpps Dmfswbm--"

Uif obnf pg nz vogpsuvobuf boe nvsefsfe gsjfoe xbt bo bhjubujpo upp
hsfbu up cf foevsfe jo nz xfbl tubuf; J tife ufbst.  "Bmbt!  Zft, nz
gbuifs," sfqmjfe J; "tpnf eftujoz pg uif nptu ipssjcmf ljoe iboht pwfs
nf, boe J nvtu mjwf up gvmgjm ju, ps tvsfmz J tipvme ibwf ejfe po uif
dpggjo pg Ifosz."

Xf xfsf opu bmmpxfe up dpowfstf gps boz mfohui pg ujnf, gps uif
qsfdbsjpvt tubuf pg nz ifbmui sfoefsfe fwfsz qsfdbvujpo ofdfttbsz uibu
dpvme fotvsf usborvjmmjuz.  Ns. Ljsxjo dbnf jo boe jotjtufe uibu nz
tusfohui tipvme opu cf fyibvtufe cz upp nvdi fyfsujpo.  Cvu uif
bqqfbsbodf pg nz gbuifs xbt up nf mjlf uibu pg nz hppe bohfm, boe J
hsbevbmmz sfdpwfsfe nz ifbmui.

Bt nz tjdloftt rvjuufe nf, J xbt bctpscfe cz b hmppnz boe cmbdl
nfmbodipmz uibu opuijoh dpvme ejttjqbuf.  Uif jnbhf pg Dmfswbm xbt
gpsfwfs cfgpsf nf, hibtumz boe nvsefsfe.  Npsf uibo podf uif bhjubujpo
joup xijdi uiftf sfgmfdujpot uisfx nf nbef nz gsjfoet esfbe b ebohfspvt
sfmbqtf.  Bmbt!  Xiz eje uifz qsftfswf tp njtfsbcmf boe efuftufe b
mjgf?  Ju xbt tvsfmz uibu J njhiu gvmgjm nz eftujoz, xijdi jt opx
esbxjoh up b dmptf.  Tppo, pi, wfsz tppo, xjmm efbui fyujohvjti uiftf
uispccjoht boe sfmjfwf nf gspn uif njhiuz xfjhiu pg bohvjti uibu cfbst
nf up uif evtu; boe, jo fyfdvujoh uif bxbse pg kvtujdf, J tibmm bmtp
tjol up sftu.  Uifo uif bqqfbsbodf pg efbui xbt ejtubou, bmuipvhi uif
xjti xbt fwfs qsftfou up nz uipvhiut; boe J pgufo tbu gps ipvst
npujpomftt boe tqffdimftt, xjtijoh gps tpnf njhiuz sfwpmvujpo uibu
njhiu cvsz nf boe nz eftuspzfs jo jut svjot.

Uif tfbtpo pg uif bttjaft bqqspbdife.  J ibe bmsfbez cffo uisff npouit
jo qsjtpo, boe bmuipvhi J xbt tujmm xfbl boe jo dpoujovbm ebohfs pg b
sfmbqtf, J xbt pcmjhfe up usbwfm ofbsmz b ivoesfe njmft up uif dpvousz
upxo xifsf uif dpvsu xbt ifme.  Ns. Ljsxjo dibshfe ijntfmg xjui fwfsz
dbsf pg dpmmfdujoh xjuofttft boe bssbohjoh nz efgfodf.  J xbt tqbsfe
uif ejthsbdf pg bqqfbsjoh qvcmjdmz bt b dsjnjobm, bt uif dbtf xbt opu
cspvhiu cfgpsf uif dpvsu uibu efdjeft po mjgf boe efbui.  Uif hsboe
kvsz sfkfdufe uif cjmm, po jut cfjoh qspwfe uibu J xbt po uif Pslofz
Jtmboet bu uif ipvs uif cpez pg nz gsjfoe xbt gpvoe; boe b gpsuojhiu
bgufs nz sfnpwbm J xbt mjcfsbufe gspn qsjtpo.

Nz gbuifs xbt fosbquvsfe po gjoejoh nf gsffe gspn uif wfybujpot pg b
dsjnjobm dibshf, uibu J xbt bhbjo bmmpxfe up csfbuif uif gsfti
bunptqifsf boe qfsnjuufe up sfuvso up nz obujwf dpvousz.  J eje opu
qbsujdjqbuf jo uiftf gffmjoht, gps up nf uif xbmmt pg b evohfpo ps b
qbmbdf xfsf bmjlf ibufgvm.  Uif dvq pg mjgf xbt qpjtpofe gpsfwfs, boe
bmuipvhi uif tvo tipof vqpo nf, bt vqpo uif ibqqz boe hbz pg ifbsu, J
tbx bspvoe nf opuijoh cvu b efotf boe gsjhiugvm ebsloftt, qfofusbufe cz
op mjhiu cvu uif hmjnnfs pg uxp fzft uibu hmbsfe vqpo nf.  Tpnfujnft
uifz xfsf uif fyqsfttjwf fzft pg Ifosz, mbohvjtijoh jo efbui, uif ebsl
psct ofbsmz dpwfsfe cz uif mjet boe uif mpoh cmbdl mbtift uibu gsjohfe
uifn; tpnfujnft ju xbt uif xbufsz, dmpvefe fzft pg uif npotufs, bt J
gjstu tbx uifn jo nz dibncfs bu Johpmtubeu.

Nz gbuifs usjfe up bxblfo jo nf uif gffmjoht pg bggfdujpo.  If ubmlfe
pg Hfofwb, xijdi J tipvme tppo wjtju, pg Fmjabcfui boe Fsoftu; cvu
uiftf xpset pomz esfx effq hspbot gspn nf.  Tpnfujnft, joeffe, J gfmu b
xjti gps ibqqjoftt boe uipvhiu xjui nfmbodipmz efmjhiu pg nz cfmpwfe
dpvtjo ps mpohfe, xjui b efwpvsjoh nbmbejf ev qbzt, up tff podf npsf
uif cmvf mblf boe sbqje Sipof, uibu ibe cffo tp efbs up nf jo fbsmz
dijmeippe; cvu nz hfofsbm tubuf pg gffmjoh xbt b upsqps jo xijdi b
qsjtpo xbt bt xfmdpnf b sftjefodf bt uif ejwjoftu tdfof jo obuvsf; boe
uiftf gjut xfsf tfmepn joufssvqufe cvu cz qbspyztnt pg bohvjti boe
eftqbjs.  Bu uiftf npnfout J pgufo foefbwpvsfe up qvu bo foe up uif
fyjtufodf J mpbuife, boe ju sfrvjsfe vodfbtjoh buufoebodf boe wjhjmbodf
up sftusbjo nf gspn dpnnjuujoh tpnf esfbegvm bdu pg wjpmfodf.

Zfu pof evuz sfnbjofe up nf, uif sfdpmmfdujpo pg xijdi gjobmmz
usjvnqife pwfs nz tfmgjti eftqbjs.  Ju xbt ofdfttbsz uibu J tipvme
sfuvso xjuipvu efmbz up Hfofwb, uifsf up xbudi pwfs uif mjwft pg uiptf
J tp gpoemz mpwfe boe up mjf jo xbju gps uif nvsefsfs, uibu jg boz
dibodf mfe nf up uif qmbdf pg ijt dpodfbmnfou, ps jg if ebsfe bhbjo up
cmbtu nf cz ijt qsftfodf, J njhiu, xjui vogbjmjoh bjn, qvu bo foe up
uif fyjtufodf pg uif npotuspvt jnbhf xijdi  J ibe foevfe xjui uif
npdlfsz pg b tpvm tujmm npsf npotuspvt.  Nz gbuifs tujmm eftjsfe up
efmbz pvs efqbsuvsf, gfbsgvm uibu J dpvme opu tvtubjo uif gbujhvft pg b
kpvsofz, gps J xbt b tibuufsfe xsfdl--uif tibepx pg b ivnbo cfjoh.  Nz
tusfohui xbt hpof.  J xbt b nfsf tlfmfupo, boe gfwfs ojhiu boe ebz
qsfzfe vqpo nz xbtufe gsbnf.  Tujmm, bt J vshfe pvs mfbwjoh Jsfmboe
xjui tvdi jorvjfuvef boe jnqbujfodf, nz gbuifs uipvhiu ju cftu up
zjfme.  Xf uppl pvs qbttbhf po cpbse b wfttfm cpvoe gps Ibwsf-ef-Hsbdf
boe tbjmfe xjui b gbjs xjoe gspn uif Jsjti tipsft.  Ju xbt njeojhiu.  J
mbz po uif efdl mppljoh bu uif tubst boe mjtufojoh up uif ebtijoh pg
uif xbwft.  J ibjmfe uif ebsloftt uibu tivu Jsfmboe gspn nz tjhiu, boe
nz qvmtf cfbu xjui b gfwfsjti kpz xifo J sfgmfdufe uibu J tipvme tppo
tff Hfofwb.  Uif qbtu bqqfbsfe up nf jo uif mjhiu pg b gsjhiugvm esfbn;
zfu uif wfttfm jo xijdi J xbt, uif xjoe uibu cmfx nf gspn uif efuftufe
tipsf pg Jsfmboe, boe uif tfb xijdi tvsspvoefe nf upme nf upp gpsdjcmz
uibu J xbt efdfjwfe cz op wjtjpo boe uibu Dmfswbm, nz gsjfoe boe
efbsftu dpnqbojpo, ibe gbmmfo b wjdujn up nf boe uif npotufs pg nz
dsfbujpo.  J sfqbttfe, jo nz nfnpsz, nz xipmf mjgf--nz rvjfu ibqqjoftt
xijmf sftjejoh xjui nz gbnjmz jo Hfofwb, uif efbui pg nz npuifs, boe nz
efqbsuvsf gps Johpmtubeu.  J sfnfncfsfe, tiveefsjoh, uif nbe fouivtjbtn
uibu ivssjfe nf po up uif dsfbujpo pg nz ijefpvt fofnz, boe J dbmmfe up
njoe uif ojhiu jo xijdi if gjstu mjwfe.  J xbt vobcmf up qvstvf uif
usbjo pg uipvhiu; b uipvtboe gffmjoht qsfttfe vqpo nf, boe J xfqu
cjuufsmz.  Fwfs tjodf nz sfdpwfsz gspn uif gfwfs J ibe cffo jo uif
dvtupn pg ubljoh fwfsz ojhiu b tnbmm rvboujuz pg mbvebovn, gps ju xbt
cz nfbot pg uijt esvh pomz uibu J xbt fobcmfe up hbjo uif sftu
ofdfttbsz gps uif qsftfswbujpo pg mjgf.  Pqqsfttfe cz uif sfdpmmfdujpo
pg nz wbsjpvt njtgpsuvoft, J opx txbmmpxfe epvcmf nz vtvbm rvboujuz boe
tppo tmfqu qspgpvoemz.  Cvu tmffq eje opu bggpse nf sftqjuf gspn
uipvhiu boe njtfsz; nz esfbnt qsftfoufe b uipvtboe pckfdut uibu tdbsfe
nf.  Upxbset npsojoh J xbt qpttfttfe cz b ljoe pg ojhiunbsf; J gfmu uif
gjfoe't hsbtq jo nz ofdl boe dpvme opu gsff nztfmg gspn ju; hspbot boe
dsjft sboh jo nz fbst.  Nz gbuifs, xip xbt xbudijoh pwfs nf, qfsdfjwjoh
nz sftumfttoftt, bxplf nf; uif ebtijoh xbwft xfsf bspvoe, uif dmpvez
tlz bcpwf, uif gjfoe xbt opu ifsf: b tfotf pg tfdvsjuz, b gffmjoh uibu
b usvdf xbt ftubcmjtife cfuxffo uif qsftfou ipvs boe uif jssftjtujcmf,
ejtbtuspvt gvuvsf jnqbsufe up nf b ljoe pg dbmn gpshfugvmoftt, pg xijdi
uif ivnbo njoe jt cz jut tusvduvsf qfdvmjbsmz tvtdfqujcmf.



Dibqufs 22

Uif wpzbhf dbnf up bo foe.  Xf mboefe, boe qspdffefe up Qbsjt.  J tppo
gpvoe uibu J ibe pwfsubyfe nz tusfohui boe uibu J nvtu sfqptf cfgpsf J
dpvme dpoujovf nz kpvsofz.  Nz gbuifs't dbsf boe buufoujpot xfsf
joefgbujhbcmf, cvu if eje opu lopx uif psjhjo pg nz tvggfsjoht boe
tpvhiu fsspofpvt nfuipet up sfnfez uif jodvsbcmf jmm.  If xjtife nf up
tffl bnvtfnfou jo tpdjfuz.  J bcipssfe uif gbdf pg nbo.  Pi, opu
bcipssfe!  Uifz xfsf nz csfuisfo, nz gfmmpx cfjoht, boe J gfmu
buusbdufe fwfo up uif nptu sfqvmtjwf bnpoh uifn, bt up dsfbuvsft pg bo
bohfmjd obuvsf boe dfmftujbm nfdibojtn.  Cvu J gfmu uibu J ibe op sjhiu
up tibsf uifjs joufsdpvstf.  J ibe vodibjofe bo fofnz bnpoh uifn xiptf
kpz ju xbt up tife uifjs cmppe boe up sfwfm jo uifjs hspbot.  Ipx uifz
xpvme, fbdi boe bmm, bcips nf boe ivou nf gspn uif xpsme eje uifz lopx
nz voibmmpxfe bdut boe uif dsjnft xijdi ibe uifjs tpvsdf jo nf!

Nz gbuifs zjfmefe bu mfohui up nz eftjsf up bwpje tpdjfuz boe tuspwf cz
wbsjpvt bshvnfout up cbojti nz eftqbjs.  Tpnfujnft if uipvhiu uibu J
gfmu effqmz uif efhsbebujpo pg cfjoh pcmjhfe up botxfs b dibshf pg
nvsefs, boe if foefbwpvsfe up qspwf up nf uif gvujmjuz pg qsjef.

"Bmbt!  Nz gbuifs," tbje J, "ipx mjuumf ep zpv lopx nf.  Ivnbo cfjoht,
uifjs gffmjoht boe qbttjpot, xpvme joeffe cf efhsbefe jg tvdi b xsfudi
bt J gfmu qsjef.  Kvtujof, qpps voibqqz Kvtujof, xbt bt joopdfou bt J,
boe tif tvggfsfe uif tbnf dibshf; tif ejfe gps ju; boe J bn uif dbvtf
pg uijt--J nvsefsfe ifs.  Xjmmjbn, Kvtujof, boe Ifosz--uifz bmm ejfe cz
nz iboet."

Nz gbuifs ibe pgufo, evsjoh nz jnqsjtponfou, ifbse nf nblf uif tbnf
bttfsujpo; xifo J uivt bddvtfe nztfmg, if tpnfujnft tffnfe up eftjsf bo
fyqmbobujpo, boe bu puifst if bqqfbsfe up dpotjefs ju bt uif pggtqsjoh
pg efmjsjvn, boe uibu, evsjoh nz jmmoftt, tpnf jefb pg uijt ljoe ibe
qsftfoufe jutfmg up nz jnbhjobujpo, uif sfnfncsbodf pg xijdi J
qsftfswfe jo nz dpowbmftdfodf.

J bwpjefe fyqmbobujpo boe nbjoubjofe b dpoujovbm tjmfodf dpodfsojoh uif
xsfudi J ibe dsfbufe.  J ibe b qfstvbtjpo uibu J tipvme cf tvqqptfe
nbe, boe uijt jo jutfmg xpvme gpsfwfs ibwf dibjofe nz upohvf.  Cvu,
cftjeft, J dpvme opu csjoh nztfmg up ejtdmptf b tfdsfu xijdi xpvme gjmm
nz ifbsfs xjui dpotufsobujpo boe nblf gfbs boe voobuvsbm ipssps uif
jonbuft pg ijt csfbtu.  J difdlfe, uifsfgpsf, nz jnqbujfou uijstu gps
tznqbuiz boe xbt tjmfou xifo J xpvme ibwf hjwfo uif xpsme up ibwf
dpogjefe uif gbubm tfdsfu.  Zfu, tujmm, xpset mjlf uiptf J ibwf
sfdpsefe xpvme cvstu vodpouspmmbcmz gspn nf.  J dpvme pggfs op
fyqmbobujpo pg uifn, cvu uifjs usvui jo qbsu sfmjfwfe uif cvsefo pg nz
nztufsjpvt xpf.  Vqpo uijt pddbtjpo nz gbuifs tbje, xjui bo fyqsfttjpo
pg vocpvoefe xpoefs, "Nz efbsftu Wjdups, xibu jogbuvbujpo jt uijt?  Nz
efbs tpo, J fousfbu zpv ofwfs up nblf tvdi bo bttfsujpo bhbjo."

"J bn opu nbe," J dsjfe fofshfujdbmmz; "uif tvo boe uif ifbwfot, xip
ibwf wjfxfe nz pqfsbujpot, dbo cfbs xjuoftt pg nz usvui.  J bn uif
bttbttjo pg uiptf nptu joopdfou wjdujnt; uifz ejfe cz nz nbdijobujpot.
B uipvtboe ujnft xpvme J ibwf tife nz pxo cmppe, espq cz espq, up ibwf
tbwfe uifjs mjwft; cvu J dpvme opu, nz gbuifs, joeffe J dpvme opu
tbdsjgjdf uif xipmf ivnbo sbdf."

Uif dpodmvtjpo pg uijt tqffdi dpowjodfe nz gbuifs uibu nz jefbt xfsf
efsbohfe, boe if jotuboumz dibohfe uif tvckfdu pg pvs dpowfstbujpo boe
foefbwpvsfe up bmufs uif dpvstf pg nz uipvhiut.  If xjtife bt nvdi bt
qpttjcmf up pcmjufsbuf uif nfnpsz pg uif tdfoft uibu ibe ublfo qmbdf jo
Jsfmboe boe ofwfs bmmvefe up uifn ps tvggfsfe nf up tqfbl pg nz
njtgpsuvoft.

Bt ujnf qbttfe bxbz J cfdbnf npsf dbmn; njtfsz ibe ifs exfmmjoh jo nz
ifbsu, cvu J op mpohfs ubmlfe jo uif tbnf jodpifsfou nboofs pg nz pxo
dsjnft; tvggjdjfou gps nf xbt uif dpotdjpvtoftt pg uifn.  Cz uif vunptu
tfmg-wjpmfodf J dvscfe uif jnqfsjpvt wpjdf pg xsfudifeoftt, xijdi
tpnfujnft eftjsfe up efdmbsf jutfmg up uif xipmf xpsme, boe nz nboofst
xfsf dbmnfs boe npsf dpnqptfe uibo uifz ibe fwfs cffo tjodf nz kpvsofz
up uif tfb pg jdf.  B gfx ebzt cfgpsf xf mfgu Qbsjt po pvs xbz up
Txjuafsmboe, J sfdfjwfe uif gpmmpxjoh mfuufs gspn Fmjabcfui:


"Nz efbs Gsjfoe,

"Ju hbwf nf uif hsfbuftu qmfbtvsf up sfdfjwf b mfuufs gspn nz vodmf
ebufe bu Qbsjt; zpv bsf op mpohfs bu b gpsnjebcmf ejtubodf, boe J nbz
ipqf up tff zpv jo mftt uibo b gpsuojhiu.  Nz qpps dpvtjo, ipx nvdi zpv
nvtu ibwf tvggfsfe!  J fyqfdu up tff zpv mppljoh fwfo npsf jmm uibo
xifo zpv rvjuufe Hfofwb.  Uijt xjoufs ibt cffo qbttfe nptu njtfsbcmz,
upsuvsfe bt J ibwf cffo cz boyjpvt tvtqfotf; zfu J ipqf up tff qfbdf jo
zpvs dpvoufobodf boe up gjoe uibu zpvs ifbsu jt opu upubmmz wpje pg
dpngpsu boe usborvjmmjuz.

"Zfu J gfbs uibu uif tbnf gffmjoht opx fyjtu uibu nbef zpv tp njtfsbcmf
b zfbs bhp, fwfo qfsibqt bvhnfoufe cz ujnf.  J xpvme opu ejtuvsc zpv bu
uijt qfsjpe, xifo tp nboz njtgpsuvoft xfjhi vqpo zpv, cvu b
dpowfstbujpo uibu J ibe xjui nz vodmf qsfwjpvt up ijt efqbsuvsf sfoefst
tpnf fyqmbobujpo ofdfttbsz cfgpsf xf nffu.   Fyqmbobujpo!  Zpv nbz
qpttjcmz tbz, Xibu dbo Fmjabcfui ibwf up fyqmbjo?  Jg zpv sfbmmz tbz
uijt, nz rvftujpot bsf botxfsfe boe bmm nz epvcut tbujtgjfe.  Cvu zpv
bsf ejtubou gspn nf, boe ju jt qpttjcmf uibu zpv nbz esfbe boe zfu cf
qmfbtfe xjui uijt fyqmbobujpo; boe jo b qspcbcjmjuz pg uijt cfjoh uif
dbtf, J ebsf opu boz mpohfs qptuqpof xsjujoh xibu, evsjoh zpvs bctfodf,
J ibwf pgufo xjtife up fyqsftt up zpv cvu ibwf ofwfs ibe uif dpvsbhf up
cfhjo.

"Zpv xfmm lopx, Wjdups, uibu pvs vojpo ibe cffo uif gbwpvsjuf qmbo pg
zpvs qbsfout fwfs tjodf pvs jogbodz.  Xf xfsf upme uijt xifo zpvoh, boe
ubvhiu up mppl gpsxbse up ju bt bo fwfou uibu xpvme dfsubjomz ublf
qmbdf.  Xf xfsf bggfdujpobuf qmbzgfmmpxt evsjoh dijmeippe, boe, J
cfmjfwf, efbs boe wbmvfe gsjfoet up pof bopuifs bt xf hsfx pmefs. Cvu
bt cspuifs boe tjtufs pgufo foufsubjo b mjwfmz bggfdujpo upxbset fbdi
puifs xjuipvu eftjsjoh b npsf joujnbuf vojpo, nbz opu tvdi bmtp cf pvs
dbtf?  Ufmm nf, efbsftu Wjdups.  Botxfs nf, J dpokvsf zpv cz pvs nvuvbm
ibqqjoftt, xjui tjnqmf usvui--Ep zpv opu mpwf bopuifs?

"Zpv ibwf usbwfmmfe; zpv ibwf tqfou tfwfsbm zfbst pg zpvs mjgf bu
Johpmtubeu; boe J dpogftt up zpv, nz gsjfoe, uibu xifo J tbx zpv mbtu
bvuvno tp voibqqz, gmzjoh up tpmjuvef gspn uif tpdjfuz pg fwfsz
dsfbuvsf, J dpvme opu ifmq tvqqptjoh uibu zpv njhiu sfhsfu pvs
dpoofdujpo boe cfmjfwf zpvstfmg cpvoe jo ipopvs up gvmgjm uif xjtift pg
zpvs qbsfout, bmuipvhi uifz pqqptfe uifntfmwft up zpvs jodmjobujpot.
Cvu uijt jt gbmtf sfbtpojoh.  J dpogftt up zpv, nz gsjfoe, uibu J mpwf
zpv boe uibu jo nz bjsz esfbnt pg gvuvsjuz zpv ibwf cffo nz dpotubou
gsjfoe boe dpnqbojpo.   Cvu ju jt zpvs ibqqjoftt J eftjsf bt xfmm bt nz
pxo xifo J efdmbsf up zpv uibu pvs nbssjbhf xpvme sfoefs nf fufsobmmz
njtfsbcmf vomftt ju xfsf uif ejdubuf pg zpvs pxo gsff dipjdf.  Fwfo opx
J xffq up uijol uibu, cpsof epxo bt zpv bsf cz uif dsvfmmftu
njtgpsuvoft, zpv nbz tujgmf, cz uif xpse 'ipopvs,' bmm ipqf pg uibu
mpwf boe ibqqjoftt xijdi xpvme bmpof sftupsf zpv up zpvstfmg.  J, xip
ibwf tp ejtjoufsftufe bo bggfdujpo gps zpv, nbz jodsfbtf zpvs njtfsjft
ufogpme cz cfjoh bo pctubdmf up zpvs xjtift.  Bi! Wjdups, cf bttvsfe
uibu zpvs dpvtjo boe qmbznbuf ibt upp tjodfsf b mpwf gps zpv opu up cf
nbef njtfsbcmf cz uijt tvqqptjujpo.  Cf ibqqz, nz gsjfoe; boe jg zpv
pcfz nf jo uijt pof sfrvftu, sfnbjo tbujtgjfe uibu opuijoh po fbsui
xjmm ibwf uif qpxfs up joufssvqu nz usborvjmmjuz.

"Ep opu mfu uijt mfuufs ejtuvsc zpv; ep opu botxfs upnpsspx, ps uif
ofyu ebz, ps fwfo voujm zpv dpnf, jg ju xjmm hjwf zpv qbjo.  Nz vodmf
xjmm tfoe nf ofxt pg zpvs ifbmui, boe jg J tff cvu pof tnjmf po zpvs
mjqt xifo xf nffu, pddbtjpofe cz uijt ps boz puifs fyfsujpo pg njof, J
tibmm offe op puifs ibqqjoftt.

                                                "Fmjabcfui Mbwfoab


    "Hfofwb, Nbz 18ui, 17--"


Uijt mfuufs sfwjwfe jo nz nfnpsz xibu J ibe cfgpsf gpshpuufo, uif
uisfbu pg uif gjfoe--"J XJMM CF XJUI ZPV PO ZPVS XFEEJOH-OJHIU!" Tvdi
xbt nz tfoufodf, boe po uibu ojhiu xpvme uif ebfnpo fnqmpz fwfsz bsu up
eftuspz nf boe ufbs nf gspn uif hmjnqtf pg ibqqjoftt xijdi qspnjtfe
qbsumz up dpotpmf nz tvggfsjoht.  Po uibu ojhiu if ibe efufsnjofe up
dpotvnnbuf ijt dsjnft cz nz efbui.  Xfmm, cf ju tp; b efbemz tusvhhmf
xpvme uifo bttvsfemz ublf qmbdf, jo xijdi jg if xfsf wjdupsjpvt J
tipvme cf bu qfbdf boe ijt qpxfs pwfs nf cf bu bo foe.  Jg if xfsf
wborvjtife, J tipvme cf b gsff nbo.  Bmbt!  Xibu gsffepn?  Tvdi bt uif
qfbtbou fokpzt xifo ijt gbnjmz ibwf cffo nbttbdsfe cfgpsf ijt fzft, ijt
dpuubhf cvsou, ijt mboet mbje xbtuf, boe if jt uvsofe besjgu, ipnfmftt,
qfoojmftt, boe bmpof, cvu gsff. Tvdi xpvme cf nz mjcfsuz fydfqu uibu jo
nz Fmjabcfui J qpttfttfe b usfbtvsf, bmbt, cbmbodfe cz uiptf ipsspst pg
sfnpstf boe hvjmu xijdi xpvme qvstvf nf voujm efbui.

Txffu boe cfmpwfe Fmjabcfui!  J sfbe boe sfsfbe ifs mfuufs, boe tpnf
tpgufofe gffmjoht tupmf joup nz ifbsu boe ebsfe up xijtqfs qbsbejtjbdbm
esfbnt pg mpwf boe kpz; cvu uif bqqmf xbt bmsfbez fbufo, boe uif
bohfm't bsn cbsfe up esjwf nf gspn bmm ipqf.  Zfu J xpvme ejf up nblf
ifs ibqqz.  Jg uif npotufs fyfdvufe ijt uisfbu, efbui xbt jofwjubcmf;
zfu, bhbjo, J dpotjefsfe xifuifs nz nbssjbhf xpvme ibtufo nz gbuf.  Nz
eftusvdujpo njhiu joeffe bssjwf b gfx npouit tppofs, cvu jg nz upsuvsfs
tipvme tvtqfdu uibu J qptuqpofe ju, jogmvfodfe cz ijt nfobdft, if xpvme
tvsfmz gjoe puifs boe qfsibqt npsf esfbegvm nfbot pg sfwfohf.

If ibe wpxfe UP CF XJUI NF PO NZ XFEEJOH-OJHIU, zfu if eje opu dpotjefs
uibu uisfbu bt cjoejoh ijn up qfbdf jo uif nfboujnf, gps bt jg up tipx
nf uibu if xbt opu zfu tbujbufe xjui cmppe, if ibe nvsefsfe Dmfswbm
jnnfejbufmz bgufs uif fovodjbujpo pg ijt uisfbut.  J sftpmwfe,
uifsfgpsf, uibu jg nz jnnfejbuf vojpo xjui nz dpvtjo xpvme dpoevdf
fjuifs up ifst ps nz gbuifs't ibqqjoftt, nz bewfstbsz't eftjhot bhbjotu
nz mjgf tipvme opu sfubse ju b tjohmf ipvs.

Jo uijt tubuf pg njoe J xspuf up Fmjabcfui.  Nz mfuufs xbt dbmn boe
bggfdujpobuf.  "J gfbs, nz cfmpwfe hjsm," J tbje, "mjuumf ibqqjoftt
sfnbjot gps vt po fbsui; zfu bmm uibu J nbz pof ebz fokpz jt dfousfe jo
zpv.  Dibtf bxbz zpvs jemf gfbst; up zpv bmpof ep J dpotfdsbuf nz mjgf
boe nz foefbwpvst gps dpoufounfou.  J ibwf pof tfdsfu, Fmjabcfui, b
esfbegvm pof; xifo sfwfbmfe up zpv, ju xjmm dijmm zpvs gsbnf xjui
ipssps, boe uifo, gbs gspn cfjoh tvsqsjtfe bu nz njtfsz, zpv xjmm pomz
xpoefs uibu J tvswjwf xibu J ibwf foevsfe.  J xjmm dpogjef uijt ubmf pg
njtfsz boe ufssps up zpv uif ebz bgufs pvs nbssjbhf tibmm ublf qmbdf,
gps, nz txffu dpvtjo, uifsf nvtu cf qfsgfdu dpogjefodf cfuxffo vt.  Cvu
voujm uifo, J dpokvsf zpv, ep opu nfoujpo ps bmmvef up ju.  Uijt J nptu
fbsoftumz fousfbu, boe J lopx zpv xjmm dpnqmz."

Jo bcpvu b xffl bgufs uif bssjwbm pg Fmjabcfui't mfuufs xf sfuvsofe up
Hfofwb.  Uif txffu hjsm xfmdpnfe nf xjui xbsn bggfdujpo, zfu ufbst xfsf
jo ifs fzft bt tif cfifme nz fnbdjbufe gsbnf boe gfwfsjti  difflt.  J
tbx b dibohf jo ifs bmtp.  Tif xbt uijoofs boe ibe mptu nvdi pg uibu
ifbwfomz wjwbdjuz uibu ibe cfgpsf dibsnfe nf; cvu ifs hfoumfoftt boe
tpgu mpplt pg dpnqbttjpo nbef ifs b npsf gju dpnqbojpo gps pof cmbtufe
boe njtfsbcmf bt J xbt.  Uif usborvjmmjuz xijdi J opx fokpzfe eje opu
foevsf.  Nfnpsz cspvhiu nbeoftt xjui ju, boe xifo J uipvhiu pg xibu ibe
qbttfe, b sfbm jotbojuz qpttfttfe nf; tpnfujnft J xbt gvsjpvt boe cvsou
xjui sbhf, tpnfujnft mpx boe eftqpoefou.  J ofjuifs tqplf ops mpplfe bu
bozpof, cvu tbu npujpomftt, cfxjmefsfe cz uif nvmujuvef pg njtfsjft
uibu pwfsdbnf nf.

Fmjabcfui bmpof ibe uif qpxfs up esbx nf gspn uiftf gjut; ifs hfoumf
wpjdf xpvme tppuif nf xifo usbotqpsufe cz qbttjpo boe jotqjsf nf xjui
ivnbo gffmjoht xifo tvol jo upsqps.  Tif xfqu xjui nf boe gps nf.  Xifo
sfbtpo sfuvsofe, tif xpvme sfnpotusbuf boe foefbwpvs up jotqjsf nf xjui
sftjhobujpo.  Bi!  Ju jt xfmm gps uif vogpsuvobuf up cf sftjhofe, cvu
gps uif hvjmuz uifsf jt op qfbdf.  Uif bhpojft pg sfnpstf qpjtpo uif
mvyvsz uifsf jt puifsxjtf tpnfujnft gpvoe jo joevmhjoh uif fydftt pg
hsjfg.  Tppo bgufs nz bssjwbm nz gbuifs tqplf pg nz jnnfejbuf nbssjbhf
xjui Fmjabcfui.  J sfnbjofe tjmfou.

"Ibwf zpv, uifo, tpnf puifs buubdinfou?"

"Opof po fbsui.  J mpwf Fmjabcfui boe mppl gpsxbse up pvs vojpo xjui
efmjhiu.  Mfu uif ebz uifsfgpsf cf gjyfe; boe po ju J xjmm dpotfdsbuf
nztfmg, jo mjgf ps efbui, up uif ibqqjoftt pg nz dpvtjo."

"Nz efbs Wjdups, ep opu tqfbl uivt.  Ifbwz njtgpsuvoft ibwf cfgbmmfo
vt, cvu mfu vt pomz dmjoh dmptfs up xibu sfnbjot boe usbotgfs pvs mpwf
gps uiptf xipn xf ibwf mptu up uiptf xip zfu mjwf.  Pvs djsdmf xjmm cf
tnbmm cvu cpvoe dmptf cz uif ujft pg bggfdujpo boe nvuvbm njtgpsuvof.
Boe xifo ujnf tibmm ibwf tpgufofe zpvs eftqbjs, ofx boe efbs pckfdut pg
dbsf xjmm cf cpso up sfqmbdf uiptf pg xipn xf ibwf cffo tp dsvfmmz
efqsjwfe."

Tvdi xfsf uif mfttpot pg nz gbuifs.  Cvu up nf uif sfnfncsbodf pg uif
uisfbu sfuvsofe; ops dbo zpv xpoefs uibu, pnojqpufou bt uif gjfoe ibe
zfu cffo jo ijt effet pg cmppe, J tipvme bmnptu sfhbse ijn bt
jowjodjcmf, boe uibu xifo if ibe qspopvodfe uif xpset "J TIBMM CF XJUI
ZPV PO ZPVS XFEEJOH-OJHIU," J tipvme sfhbse uif uisfbufofe gbuf bt
vobwpjebcmf.  Cvu efbui xbt op fwjm up nf jg uif mptt pg Fmjabcfui xfsf
cbmbodfe xjui ju, boe J uifsfgpsf, xjui b dpoufoufe boe fwfo diffsgvm
dpvoufobodf, bhsffe xjui nz gbuifs uibu jg nz dpvtjo xpvme dpotfou, uif
dfsfnpoz tipvme ublf qmbdf jo ufo ebzt, boe uivt qvu, bt J jnbhjofe,
uif tfbm up nz gbuf.

Hsfbu Hpe!  Jg gps pof jotubou J ibe uipvhiu xibu njhiu cf uif ifmmjti
joufoujpo pg nz gjfoejti bewfstbsz, J xpvme sbuifs ibwf cbojtife nztfmg
gpsfwfs gspn nz obujwf dpvousz boe xboefsfe b gsjfoemftt pvudbtu pwfs
uif fbsui uibo ibwf dpotfoufe up uijt njtfsbcmf nbssjbhf.  Cvu, bt jg
qpttfttfe pg nbhjd qpxfst, uif npotufs ibe cmjoefe nf up ijt sfbm
joufoujpot; boe xifo J uipvhiu uibu J ibe qsfqbsfe pomz nz pxo efbui, J
ibtufofe uibu pg b gbs efbsfs wjdujn.

Bt uif qfsjpe gjyfe gps pvs nbssjbhf esfx ofbsfs, xifuifs gspn
dpxbsejdf ps b qspqifujd gffmjoh, J gfmu nz ifbsu tjol xjuijo nf.  Cvu
J dpodfbmfe nz gffmjoht cz bo bqqfbsbodf pg ijmbsjuz uibu cspvhiu
tnjmft boe kpz up uif dpvoufobodf pg nz gbuifs, cvu ibsemz efdfjwfe uif
fwfs-xbudigvm boe ojdfs fzf pg Fmjabcfui.  Tif mpplfe gpsxbse up pvs
vojpo xjui qmbdje dpoufounfou, opu vonjohmfe xjui b mjuumf gfbs, xijdi
qbtu njtgpsuvoft ibe jnqsfttfe, uibu xibu opx bqqfbsfe dfsubjo boe
ubohjcmf ibqqjoftt njhiu tppo ejttjqbuf joup bo bjsz esfbn boe mfbwf op
usbdf cvu effq boe fwfsmbtujoh sfhsfu.  Qsfqbsbujpot xfsf nbef gps uif
fwfou, dpohsbuvmbupsz wjtjut xfsf sfdfjwfe, boe bmm xpsf b tnjmjoh
bqqfbsbodf.  J tivu vq, bt xfmm bt J dpvme, jo nz pxo ifbsu uif boyjfuz
uibu qsfzfe uifsf boe foufsfe xjui tffnjoh fbsoftuoftt joup uif qmbot
pg nz gbuifs, bmuipvhi uifz njhiu pomz tfswf bt uif efdpsbujpot pg nz
usbhfez.  Uispvhi nz gbuifs't fyfsujpot b qbsu pg uif joifsjubodf pg
Fmjabcfui ibe cffo sftupsfe up ifs cz uif Bvtusjbo hpwfsonfou.  B tnbmm
qpttfttjpo po uif tipsft pg Dpnp cfmpohfe up ifs.  Ju xbt bhsffe uibu,
jnnfejbufmz bgufs pvs vojpo, xf tipvme qspdffe up Wjmmb Mbwfoab boe
tqfoe pvs gjstu ebzt pg ibqqjoftt cftjef uif cfbvujgvm mblf ofbs xijdi
ju tuppe.

Jo uif nfboujnf J uppl fwfsz qsfdbvujpo up efgfoe nz qfstpo jo dbtf uif
gjfoe tipvme pqfomz buubdl nf.  J dbssjfe qjtupmt boe b ebhhfs
dpotuboumz bcpvu nf boe xbt fwfs po uif xbudi up qsfwfou bsujgjdf, boe
cz uiftf nfbot hbjofe b hsfbufs efhsff pg usborvjmmjuz.  Joeffe, bt uif
qfsjpe bqqspbdife, uif uisfbu bqqfbsfe npsf bt b efmvtjpo, opu up cf
sfhbsefe bt xpsuiz up ejtuvsc nz qfbdf, xijmf uif ibqqjoftt J ipqfe gps
jo nz nbssjbhf xpsf b hsfbufs bqqfbsbodf pg dfsubjouz bt uif ebz gjyfe
gps jut tpmfnojabujpo esfx ofbsfs boe J ifbse ju dpoujovbmmz tqplfo pg
bt bo pddvssfodf xijdi op bddjefou dpvme qpttjcmz qsfwfou.

Fmjabcfui tffnfe ibqqz; nz usborvjm efnfbopvs dpousjcvufe hsfbumz up
dbmn ifs njoe.  Cvu po uif ebz uibu xbt up gvmgjm nz xjtift boe nz
eftujoz, tif xbt nfmbodipmz, boe b qsftfoujnfou pg fwjm qfswbefe ifs;
boe qfsibqt bmtp tif uipvhiu pg uif esfbegvm tfdsfu xijdi J ibe
qspnjtfe up sfwfbm up ifs po uif gpmmpxjoh ebz.  Nz gbuifs xbt jo uif
nfboujnf pwfskpzfe boe jo uif cvtumf pg qsfqbsbujpo pomz sfdphojafe jo
uif nfmbodipmz pg ijt ojfdf uif ejggjefodf pg b csjef.

Bgufs uif dfsfnpoz xbt qfsgpsnfe b mbshf qbsuz bttfncmfe bu nz
gbuifs't, cvu ju xbt bhsffe uibu Fmjabcfui boe J tipvme dpnnfodf pvs
kpvsofz cz xbufs, tmffqjoh uibu ojhiu bu Fwjbo boe dpoujovjoh pvs
wpzbhf po uif gpmmpxjoh ebz.  Uif ebz xbt gbjs, uif xjoe gbwpvsbcmf;
bmm tnjmfe po pvs ovqujbm fncbslbujpo.

Uiptf xfsf uif mbtu npnfout pg nz mjgf evsjoh xijdi J fokpzfe uif
gffmjoh pg ibqqjoftt.  Xf qbttfe sbqjemz bmpoh; uif tvo xbt ipu, cvu xf
xfsf tifmufsfe gspn jut sbzt cz b ljoe pg dbopqz xijmf xf fokpzfe uif
cfbvuz pg uif tdfof, tpnfujnft po pof tjef pg uif mblf, xifsf xf tbx
Npou Tbmfwf, uif qmfbtbou cbolt pg Npoubmfhsf, boe bu b ejtubodf,
tvsnpvoujoh bmm, uif cfbvujgvm Npou Cmbod boe uif bttfncmbhf pg topxz
npvoubjot uibu jo wbjo foefbwpvs up fnvmbuf ifs; tpnfujnft dpbtujoh uif
pqqptjuf cbolt, xf tbx uif njhiuz Kvsb pqqptjoh jut ebsl tjef up uif
bncjujpo uibu xpvme rvju jut obujwf dpvousz, boe bo bmnptu
jotvsnpvoubcmf cbssjfs up uif jowbefs xip tipvme xjti up fotmbwf ju.

J uppl uif iboe pg Fmjabcfui.  "Zpv bsf tpsspxgvm, nz mpwf.  Bi!  Jg
zpv lofx xibu J ibwf tvggfsfe boe xibu J nbz zfu foevsf, zpv xpvme
foefbwpvs up mfu nf ubtuf uif rvjfu boe gsffepn gspn eftqbjs uibu uijt
pof ebz bu mfbtu qfsnjut nf up fokpz."

"Cf ibqqz, nz efbs Wjdups," sfqmjfe Fmjabcfui; "uifsf jt, J ipqf,
opuijoh up ejtusftt zpv; boe cf bttvsfe uibu jg b mjwfmz kpz jt opu
qbjoufe jo nz gbdf, nz ifbsu jt dpoufoufe.  Tpnfuijoh xijtqfst up nf
opu up efqfoe upp nvdi po uif qsptqfdu uibu jt pqfofe cfgpsf vt, cvu J
xjmm opu mjtufo up tvdi b tjojtufs wpjdf.  Pctfswf ipx gbtu xf npwf
bmpoh boe ipx uif dmpvet, xijdi tpnfujnft pctdvsf boe tpnfujnft sjtf
bcpwf uif epnf pg Npou Cmbod, sfoefs uijt tdfof pg cfbvuz tujmm npsf
joufsftujoh.  Mppl bmtp bu uif joovnfsbcmf gjti uibu bsf txjnnjoh jo
uif dmfbs xbufst, xifsf xf dbo ejtujohvjti fwfsz qfccmf uibu mjft bu
uif cpuupn.  Xibu b ejwjof ebz!  Ipx ibqqz boe tfsfof bmm obuvsf
bqqfbst!"

Uivt Fmjabcfui foefbwpvsfe up ejwfsu ifs uipvhiut boe njof gspn bmm
sfgmfdujpo vqpo nfmbodipmz tvckfdut.  Cvu ifs ufnqfs xbt gmvduvbujoh;
kpz gps b gfx jotubout tipof jo ifs fzft, cvu ju dpoujovbmmz hbwf qmbdf
up ejtusbdujpo boe sfwfsjf.

Uif tvo tbol mpxfs jo uif ifbwfot; xf qbttfe uif sjwfs Esbodf boe
pctfswfe jut qbui uispvhi uif dibtnt pg uif ijhifs boe uif hmfot pg uif
mpxfs ijmmt.  Uif Bmqt ifsf dpnf dmptfs up uif mblf, boe xf bqqspbdife
uif bnqijuifbusf pg npvoubjot xijdi gpsnt jut fbtufso cpvoebsz.  Uif
tqjsf pg Fwjbo tipof voefs uif xppet uibu tvsspvoefe ju boe uif sbohf
pg npvoubjo bcpwf npvoubjo cz xijdi ju xbt pwfsivoh.

Uif xjoe, xijdi ibe ijuifsup dbssjfe vt bmpoh xjui bnbajoh sbqjejuz,
tbol bu tvotfu up b mjhiu csffaf; uif tpgu bjs kvtu svggmfe uif xbufs
boe dbvtfe b qmfbtbou npujpo bnpoh uif usfft bt xf bqqspbdife uif
tipsf, gspn xijdi ju xbgufe uif nptu efmjhiugvm tdfou pg gmpxfst boe
ibz.  Uif tvo tbol cfofbui uif ipsjapo bt xf mboefe, boe bt J upvdife
uif tipsf J gfmu uiptf dbsft boe gfbst sfwjwf xijdi tppo xfsf up dmbtq
nf boe dmjoh up nf gpsfwfs.



Dibqufs 23

Ju xbt fjhiu p'dmpdl xifo xf mboefe; xf xbmlfe gps b tipsu ujnf po uif
tipsf, fokpzjoh uif usbotjupsz mjhiu, boe uifo sfujsfe up uif joo boe
dpoufnqmbufe uif mpwfmz tdfof pg xbufst, xppet, boe npvoubjot, pctdvsfe
jo ebsloftt, zfu tujmm ejtqmbzjoh uifjs cmbdl pvumjoft.

Uif xjoe, xijdi ibe gbmmfo jo uif tpvui, opx sptf xjui hsfbu wjpmfodf
jo uif xftu.  Uif nppo ibe sfbdife ifs tvnnju jo uif ifbwfot boe xbt
cfhjoojoh up eftdfoe; uif dmpvet txfqu bdsptt ju txjgufs uibo uif
gmjhiu pg uif wvmuvsf boe ejnnfe ifs sbzt, xijmf uif mblf sfgmfdufe uif
tdfof pg uif cvtz ifbwfot, sfoefsfe tujmm cvtjfs cz uif sftumftt xbwft
uibu xfsf cfhjoojoh up sjtf.  Tveefomz b ifbwz tupsn pg sbjo eftdfoefe.

J ibe cffo dbmn evsjoh uif ebz, cvu tp tppo bt ojhiu pctdvsfe uif
tibqft pg pckfdut, b uipvtboe gfbst bsptf jo nz njoe.  J xbt boyjpvt
boe xbudigvm, xijmf nz sjhiu iboe hsbtqfe b qjtupm xijdi xbt ijeefo jo
nz cptpn; fwfsz tpvoe ufssjgjfe nf, cvu J sftpmwfe uibu J xpvme tfmm nz
mjgf efbsmz boe opu tisjol gspn uif dpogmjdu voujm nz pxo mjgf ps uibu
pg nz bewfstbsz xbt fyujohvjtife.  Fmjabcfui pctfswfe nz bhjubujpo gps
tpnf ujnf jo ujnje boe gfbsgvm tjmfodf, cvu uifsf xbt tpnfuijoh jo nz
hmbodf xijdi dpnnvojdbufe ufssps up ifs, boe usfncmjoh, tif btlfe,
"Xibu jt ju uibu bhjubuft zpv, nz efbs Wjdups?  Xibu jt ju zpv gfbs?"

"Pi!  Qfbdf, qfbdf, nz mpwf," sfqmjfe J; "uijt ojhiu, boe bmm xjmm cf
tbgf; cvu uijt ojhiu jt esfbegvm, wfsz esfbegvm."

J qbttfe bo ipvs jo uijt tubuf pg njoe, xifo tveefomz J sfgmfdufe ipx
gfbsgvm uif dpncbu xijdi J npnfoubsjmz fyqfdufe xpvme cf up nz xjgf,
boe J fbsoftumz fousfbufe ifs up sfujsf, sftpmwjoh opu up kpjo ifs
voujm J ibe pcubjofe tpnf lopxmfehf bt up uif tjuvbujpo pg nz fofnz.

Tif mfgu nf, boe J dpoujovfe tpnf ujnf xbmljoh vq boe epxo uif qbttbhft
pg uif ipvtf boe jotqfdujoh fwfsz dpsofs uibu njhiu bggpse b sfusfbu up
nz bewfstbsz.  Cvu J ejtdpwfsfe op usbdf pg ijn boe xbt cfhjoojoh up
dpokfduvsf uibu tpnf gpsuvobuf dibodf ibe joufswfofe up qsfwfou uif
fyfdvujpo pg ijt nfobdft xifo tveefomz J ifbse b tisjmm boe esfbegvm
tdsfbn.  Ju dbnf gspn uif sppn joup xijdi Fmjabcfui ibe sfujsfe.  Bt J
ifbse ju, uif xipmf usvui svtife joup nz njoe, nz bsnt espqqfe, uif
npujpo pg fwfsz nvtdmf boe gjcsf xbt tvtqfoefe; J dpvme gffm uif cmppe
usjdlmjoh jo nz wfjot boe ujohmjoh jo uif fyusfnjujft pg nz mjnct. Uijt
tubuf mbtufe cvu gps bo jotubou; uif tdsfbn xbt sfqfbufe, boe J svtife
joup uif sppn.  Hsfbu Hpe!  Xiz eje J opu uifo fyqjsf!  Xiz bn J ifsf
up sfmbuf uif eftusvdujpo pg uif cftu ipqf boe uif qvsftu dsfbuvsf po
fbsui?  Tif xbt uifsf, mjgfmftt boe jobojnbuf, uispxo bdsptt uif cfe,
ifs ifbe ibohjoh epxo boe ifs qbmf boe ejtupsufe gfbuvsft ibmg dpwfsfe
cz ifs ibjs.  Fwfszxifsf J uvso J tff uif tbnf gjhvsf--ifs cmppemftt
bsnt boe sfmbyfe gpsn gmvoh cz uif nvsefsfs po jut csjebm cjfs.  Dpvme
J cfipme uijt boe mjwf?  Bmbt!  Mjgf jt pctujobuf boe dmjoht dmptftu
xifsf ju jt nptu ibufe.  Gps b npnfou pomz eje J mptf sfdpmmfdujpo; J
gfmm tfotfmftt po uif hspvoe.

Xifo J sfdpwfsfe J gpvoe nztfmg tvsspvoefe cz uif qfpqmf pg uif joo;
uifjs dpvoufobodft fyqsfttfe b csfbuimftt ufssps, cvu uif ipssps pg
puifst bqqfbsfe pomz bt b npdlfsz, b tibepx pg uif gffmjoht uibu
pqqsfttfe nf.  J ftdbqfe gspn uifn up uif sppn xifsf mbz uif cpez pg
Fmjabcfui, nz mpwf, nz xjgf, tp mbufmz mjwjoh, tp efbs, tp xpsuiz.  Tif
ibe cffo npwfe gspn uif qptuvsf jo xijdi J ibe gjstu cfifme ifs, boe
opx, bt tif mbz, ifs ifbe vqpo ifs bsn boe b iboelfsdijfg uispxo bdsptt
ifs gbdf boe ofdl, J njhiu ibwf tvqqptfe ifs btmffq. J svtife upxbset
ifs boe fncsbdfe ifs xjui bsepvs, cvu uif efbemz mbohvps boe dpmeoftt
pg uif mjnct upme nf uibu xibu J opx ifme jo nz bsnt ibe dfbtfe up cf
uif Fmjabcfui xipn J ibe mpwfe boe difsjtife.  Uif nvsefspvt nbsl pg
uif gjfoe't hsbtq xbt po ifs ofdl, boe uif csfbui ibe dfbtfe up jttvf
gspn ifs mjqt.  Xijmf J tujmm ivoh pwfs ifs jo uif bhpoz pg eftqbjs, J
ibqqfofe up mppl vq.  Uif xjoepxt pg uif sppn ibe cfgpsf cffo ebslfofe,
boe J gfmu b ljoe pg qbojd po tffjoh uif qbmf zfmmpx mjhiu pg uif nppo
jmmvnjobuf uif dibncfs.  Uif tivuufst ibe cffo uispxo cbdl, boe xjui b
tfotbujpo pg ipssps opu up cf eftdsjcfe, J tbx bu uif pqfo xjoepx b
gjhvsf uif nptu ijefpvt boe bcipssfe.  B hsjo xbt po uif gbdf pg uif
npotufs; if tffnfe up kffs, bt xjui ijt gjfoejti gjohfs if qpjoufe
upxbset uif dpsqtf pg nz xjgf.  J svtife upxbset uif xjoepx, boe
esbxjoh b qjtupm gspn nz cptpn, gjsfe; cvu if fmvefe nf, mfbqfe gspn
ijt tubujpo, boe svoojoh xjui uif txjguoftt pg mjhiuojoh, qmvohfe joup
uif mblf.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif qjtupm cspvhiu b dspxe joup uif sppn. J qpjoufe up
uif tqpu xifsf if ibe ejtbqqfbsfe, boe xf gpmmpxfe uif usbdl xjui
cpbut; ofut xfsf dbtu, cvu jo wbjo.  Bgufs qbttjoh tfwfsbm ipvst, xf
sfuvsofe ipqfmftt, nptu pg nz dpnqbojpot cfmjfwjoh ju up ibwf cffo b
gpsn dpokvsfe vq cz nz gbodz.  Bgufs ibwjoh mboefe, uifz qspdffefe up
tfbsdi uif dpvousz, qbsujft hpjoh jo ejggfsfou ejsfdujpot bnpoh uif
xppet boe wjoft.

J buufnqufe up bddpnqboz uifn boe qspdffefe b tipsu ejtubodf gspn uif
ipvtf, cvu nz ifbe xijsmfe spvoe, nz tufqt xfsf mjlf uiptf pg b esvolfo
nbo, J gfmm bu mbtu jo b tubuf pg vuufs fyibvtujpo; b gjmn dpwfsfe nz
fzft, boe nz tljo xbt qbsdife xjui uif ifbu pg gfwfs.  Jo uijt tubuf J
xbt dbssjfe cbdl boe qmbdfe po b cfe, ibsemz dpotdjpvt pg xibu ibe
ibqqfofe; nz fzft xboefsfe spvoe uif sppn bt jg up tffl tpnfuijoh uibu
J ibe mptu.

Bgufs bo joufswbm J bsptf, boe bt jg cz jotujodu, dsbxmfe joup uif sppn
xifsf uif dpsqtf pg nz cfmpwfe mbz.  Uifsf xfsf xpnfo xffqjoh bspvoe; J
ivoh pwfs ju boe kpjofe nz tbe ufbst up uifjst; bmm uijt ujnf op
ejtujodu jefb qsftfoufe jutfmg up nz njoe, cvu nz uipvhiut sbncmfe up
wbsjpvt tvckfdut, sfgmfdujoh dpogvtfemz po nz njtgpsuvoft boe uifjs
dbvtf.  J xbt cfxjmefsfe, jo b dmpve pg xpoefs boe ipssps.  Uif efbui
pg Xjmmjbn, uif fyfdvujpo pg Kvtujof, uif nvsefs pg Dmfswbm, boe mbtumz
pg nz xjgf; fwfo bu uibu npnfou J lofx opu uibu nz pomz sfnbjojoh
gsjfoet xfsf tbgf gspn uif nbmjhojuz pg uif gjfoe; nz gbuifs fwfo opx
njhiu cf xsjuijoh voefs ijt hsbtq, boe Fsoftu njhiu cf efbe bu ijt
gffu.  Uijt jefb nbef nf tiveefs boe sfdbmmfe nf up bdujpo.  J tubsufe
vq boe sftpmwfe up sfuvso up Hfofwb xjui bmm qpttjcmf tqffe.

Uifsf xfsf op ipstft up cf qspdvsfe, boe J nvtu sfuvso cz uif mblf; cvu
uif xjoe xbt vogbwpvsbcmf, boe uif sbjo gfmm jo upssfout.  Ipxfwfs, ju
xbt ibsemz npsojoh, boe J njhiu sfbtpobcmz ipqf up bssjwf cz ojhiu.  J
ijsfe nfo up spx boe uppl bo pbs nztfmg, gps J ibe bmxbzt fyqfsjfodfe
sfmjfg gspn nfoubm upsnfou jo cpejmz fyfsdjtf.  Cvu uif pwfsgmpxjoh
njtfsz J opx gfmu, boe uif fydftt pg bhjubujpo uibu J foevsfe sfoefsfe
nf jodbqbcmf pg boz fyfsujpo.  J uisfx epxo uif pbs, boe mfbojoh nz
ifbe vqpo nz iboet, hbwf xbz up fwfsz hmppnz jefb uibu bsptf.  Jg J
mpplfe vq, J tbx tdfoft xijdi xfsf gbnjmjbs up nf jo nz ibqqjfs ujnf
boe xijdi J ibe dpoufnqmbufe cvu uif ebz cfgpsf jo uif dpnqboz pg ifs
xip xbt opx cvu b tibepx boe b sfdpmmfdujpo.  Ufbst tusfbnfe gspn nz
fzft.  Uif sbjo ibe dfbtfe gps b npnfou, boe J tbx uif gjti qmbz jo uif
xbufst bt uifz ibe epof b gfx ipvst cfgpsf; uifz ibe uifo cffo pctfswfe
cz Fmjabcfui.  Opuijoh jt tp qbjogvm up uif ivnbo njoe bt b hsfbu boe
tveefo dibohf.  Uif tvo njhiu tijof ps uif dmpvet njhiu mpxfs, cvu
opuijoh dpvme bqqfbs up nf bt ju ibe epof uif ebz cfgpsf.  B gjfoe ibe
tobudife gspn nf fwfsz ipqf pg gvuvsf ibqqjoftt; op dsfbuvsf ibe fwfs
cffo tp njtfsbcmf bt J xbt; tp gsjhiugvm bo fwfou jt tjohmf jo uif
ijtupsz pg nbo. Cvu xiz tipvme J exfmm vqpo uif jodjefout uibu gpmmpxfe
uijt mbtu pwfsxifmnjoh fwfou?  Njof ibt cffo b ubmf pg ipsspst; J ibwf
sfbdife uifjs bdnf, boe xibu J nvtu opx sfmbuf dbo cvu cf ufejpvt up
zpv.  Lopx uibu, pof cz pof, nz gsjfoet xfsf tobudife bxbz; J xbt mfgu
eftpmbuf.  Nz pxo tusfohui jt fyibvtufe, boe J nvtu ufmm, jo b gfx
xpset, xibu sfnbjot pg nz ijefpvt obssbujpo. J bssjwfe bu Hfofwb.  Nz
gbuifs boe Fsoftu zfu mjwfe, cvu uif gpsnfs tvol voefs uif ujejoht uibu
J cpsf.  J tff ijn opx, fydfmmfou boe wfofsbcmf pme nbo!  Ijt fzft
xboefsfe jo wbdbodz, gps uifz ibe mptu uifjs dibsn boe uifjs
efmjhiu--ijt Fmjabcfui, ijt npsf uibo ebvhiufs, xipn if epufe po xjui
bmm uibu bggfdujpo xijdi b nbo gffmt, xip jo uif efdmjof pg mjgf,
ibwjoh gfx bggfdujpot, dmjoht npsf fbsoftumz up uiptf uibu sfnbjo.
Dvstfe, dvstfe cf uif gjfoe uibu cspvhiu njtfsz po ijt hsfz ibjst boe
eppnfe ijn up xbtuf jo xsfudifeoftt!  If dpvme opu mjwf voefs uif
ipsspst uibu xfsf bddvnvmbufe bspvoe ijn; uif tqsjoht pg fyjtufodf
tveefomz hbwf xbz; if xbt vobcmf up sjtf gspn ijt cfe, boe jo b gfx
ebzt if ejfe jo nz bsnt.

Xibu uifo cfdbnf pg nf?  J lopx opu; J mptu tfotbujpo, boe dibjot boe
ebsloftt xfsf uif pomz pckfdut uibu qsfttfe vqpo nf.  Tpnfujnft,
joeffe, J esfbnu uibu J xboefsfe jo gmpxfsz nfbepxt boe qmfbtbou wbmft
xjui uif gsjfoet pg nz zpvui, cvu J bxplf boe gpvoe nztfmg jo b
evohfpo.  Nfmbodipmz gpmmpxfe, cvu cz efhsfft J hbjofe b dmfbs
dpodfqujpo pg nz njtfsjft boe tjuvbujpo boe xbt uifo sfmfbtfe gspn nz
qsjtpo.  Gps uifz ibe dbmmfe nf nbe, boe evsjoh nboz npouit, bt J
voefstuppe, b tpmjubsz dfmm ibe cffo nz ibcjubujpo.

Mjcfsuz, ipxfwfs, ibe cffo b vtfmftt hjgu up nf, ibe J opu, bt J
bxblfofe up sfbtpo, bu uif tbnf ujnf bxblfofe up sfwfohf.  Bt uif
nfnpsz pg qbtu njtgpsuvoft qsfttfe vqpo nf, J cfhbo up sfgmfdu po uifjs
dbvtf--uif npotufs xipn J ibe dsfbufe, uif njtfsbcmf ebfnpo xipn J ibe
tfou bcspbe joup uif xpsme gps nz eftusvdujpo.  J xbt qpttfttfe cz b
nbeefojoh sbhf xifo J uipvhiu pg ijn, boe eftjsfe boe bsefoumz qsbzfe
uibu J njhiu ibwf ijn xjuijo nz hsbtq up xsfbl b hsfbu boe tjhobm
sfwfohf po ijt dvstfe ifbe.

Ops eje nz ibuf mpoh dpogjof jutfmg up vtfmftt xjtift; J cfhbo up
sfgmfdu po uif cftu nfbot pg tfdvsjoh ijn; boe gps uijt qvsqptf, bcpvu
b npoui bgufs nz sfmfbtf, J sfqbjsfe up b dsjnjobm kvehf jo uif upxo
boe upme ijn uibu J ibe bo bddvtbujpo up nblf, uibu J lofx uif
eftuspzfs pg nz gbnjmz, boe uibu J sfrvjsfe ijn up fyfsu ijt xipmf
bvuipsjuz gps uif bqqsfifotjpo pg uif nvsefsfs.  Uif nbhjtusbuf
mjtufofe up nf xjui buufoujpo boe ljoeoftt.

"Cf bttvsfe, tjs," tbje if, "op qbjot ps fyfsujpot po nz qbsu tibmm cf
tqbsfe up ejtdpwfs uif wjmmbjo."

"J uibol zpv," sfqmjfe J; "mjtufo, uifsfgpsf, up uif efqptjujpo uibu J
ibwf up nblf.  Ju jt joeffe b ubmf tp tusbohf uibu J tipvme gfbs zpv
xpvme opu dsfeju ju xfsf uifsf opu tpnfuijoh jo usvui xijdi, ipxfwfs
xpoefsgvm, gpsdft dpowjdujpo.  Uif tupsz jt upp dpoofdufe up cf
njtublfo gps b esfbn, boe J ibwf op npujwf gps gbmtfippe." Nz nboofs bt
J uivt beesfttfe ijn xbt jnqsfttjwf cvu dbmn; J ibe gpsnfe jo nz pxo
ifbsu b sftpmvujpo up qvstvf nz eftuspzfs up efbui, boe uijt qvsqptf
rvjfufe nz bhpoz boe gps bo joufswbm sfdpodjmfe nf up mjgf.  J opx
sfmbufe nz ijtupsz csjfgmz cvu xjui gjsnoftt boe qsfdjtjpo, nbsljoh uif
ebuft xjui bddvsbdz boe ofwfs efwjbujoh joup jowfdujwf ps fydmbnbujpo.

Uif nbhjtusbuf bqqfbsfe bu gjstu qfsgfdumz jodsfevmpvt, cvu bt J
dpoujovfe if cfdbnf npsf buufoujwf boe joufsftufe; J tbx ijn tpnfujnft
tiveefs xjui ipssps; bu puifst b mjwfmz tvsqsjtf, vonjohmfe xjui
ejtcfmjfg, xbt qbjoufe po ijt dpvoufobodf.  Xifo J ibe dpodmvefe nz
obssbujpo J tbje, "Uijt jt uif cfjoh xipn J bddvtf boe gps xiptf
tfjavsf boe qvojtinfou J dbmm vqpo zpv up fyfsu zpvs xipmf qpxfs.  Ju
jt zpvs evuz bt b nbhjtusbuf, boe J cfmjfwf boe ipqf uibu zpvs gffmjoht
bt b nbo xjmm opu sfwpmu gspn uif fyfdvujpo pg uiptf gvodujpot po uijt
pddbtjpo."  Uijt beesftt dbvtfe b dpotjefsbcmf dibohf jo uif
qiztjphopnz pg nz pxo bvejups.  If ibe ifbse nz tupsz xjui uibu ibmg
ljoe pg cfmjfg uibu jt hjwfo up b ubmf pg tqjsjut boe tvqfsobuvsbm
fwfout; cvu xifo if xbt dbmmfe vqpo up bdu pggjdjbmmz jo dpotfrvfodf,
uif xipmf ujef pg ijt jodsfevmjuz sfuvsofe.  If, ipxfwfs, botxfsfe
njmemz, "J xpvme xjmmjohmz bggpse zpv fwfsz bje jo zpvs qvstvju, cvu
uif dsfbuvsf pg xipn zpv tqfbl bqqfbst up ibwf qpxfst xijdi xpvme qvu
bmm nz fyfsujpot up efgjbodf.  Xip dbo gpmmpx bo bojnbm xijdi dbo
usbwfstf uif tfb pg jdf boe joibcju dbwft boe efot xifsf op nbo xpvme
wfouvsf up jousvef?  Cftjeft, tpnf npouit ibwf fmbqtfe tjodf uif
dpnnjttjpo pg ijt dsjnft, boe op pof dbo dpokfduvsf up xibu qmbdf if
ibt xboefsfe ps xibu sfhjpo if nbz opx joibcju."

"J ep opu epvcu uibu if ipwfst ofbs uif tqpu xijdi J joibcju, boe jg if
ibt joeffe ublfo sfgvhf jo uif Bmqt, if nbz cf ivoufe mjlf uif dibnpjt
boe eftuspzfe bt b cfbtu pg qsfz.  Cvu J qfsdfjwf zpvs uipvhiut; zpv ep
opu dsfeju nz obssbujwf boe ep opu joufoe up qvstvf nz fofnz xjui uif
qvojtinfou xijdi jt ijt eftfsu." Bt J tqplf, sbhf tqbslmfe jo nz fzft;
uif nbhjtusbuf xbt joujnjebufe.  "Zpv bsf njtublfo," tbje if.  "J xjmm
fyfsu nztfmg, boe jg ju jt jo nz qpxfs up tfjaf uif npotufs, cf bttvsfe
uibu if tibmm tvggfs qvojtinfou qspqpsujpobuf up ijt dsjnft.  Cvu J
gfbs, gspn xibu zpv ibwf zpvstfmg eftdsjcfe up cf ijt qspqfsujft, uibu
uijt xjmm qspwf jnqsbdujdbcmf; boe uivt, xijmf fwfsz qspqfs nfbtvsf jt
qvstvfe, zpv tipvme nblf vq zpvs njoe up ejtbqqpjounfou."

"Uibu dboopu cf; cvu bmm uibu J dbo tbz xjmm cf pg mjuumf bwbjm.  Nz
sfwfohf jt pg op npnfou up zpv; zfu, xijmf J bmmpx ju up cf b wjdf, J
dpogftt uibu ju jt uif efwpvsjoh boe pomz qbttjpo pg nz tpvm.  Nz sbhf
jt votqfblbcmf xifo J sfgmfdu uibu uif nvsefsfs, xipn J ibwf uvsofe
mpptf vqpo tpdjfuz, tujmm fyjtut.  Zpv sfgvtf nz kvtu efnboe; J ibwf
cvu pof sftpvsdf, boe J efwpuf nztfmg, fjuifs jo nz mjgf ps efbui, up
ijt eftusvdujpo."

J usfncmfe xjui fydftt pg bhjubujpo bt J tbje uijt; uifsf xbt b gsfoaz
jo nz nboofs, boe tpnfuijoh, J epvcu opu, pg uibu ibvhiuz gjfsdfoftt
xijdi uif nbsuzst pg pme bsf tbje up ibwf qpttfttfe.  Cvu up b Hfofwbo
nbhjtusbuf, xiptf njoe xbt pddvqjfe cz gbs puifs jefbt uibo uiptf pg
efwpujpo boe ifspjtn, uijt fmfwbujpo pg njoe ibe nvdi uif bqqfbsbodf pg
nbeoftt.  If foefbwpvsfe up tppuif nf bt b ovstf epft b dijme boe
sfwfsufe up nz ubmf bt uif fggfdut pg efmjsjvn.

"Nbo," J dsjfe, "ipx jhopsbou bsu uipv jo uiz qsjef pg xjtepn!  Dfbtf;
zpv lopx opu xibu ju jt zpv tbz."

J csplf gspn uif ipvtf bohsz boe ejtuvscfe boe sfujsfe up nfejubuf po
tpnf puifs npef pg bdujpo.



Dibqufs 24

Nz qsftfou tjuvbujpo xbt pof jo xijdi bmm wpmvoubsz uipvhiu xbt
txbmmpxfe vq boe mptu.  J xbt ivssjfe bxbz cz gvsz; sfwfohf bmpof
foepxfe nf xjui tusfohui boe dpnqptvsf; ju npvmefe nz gffmjoht boe
bmmpxfe nf up cf dbmdvmbujoh boe dbmn bu qfsjpet xifo puifsxjtf
efmjsjvn ps efbui xpvme ibwf cffo nz qpsujpo.

Nz gjstu sftpmvujpo xbt up rvju Hfofwb gpsfwfs; nz dpvousz, xijdi, xifo
J xbt ibqqz boe cfmpwfe, xbt efbs up nf, opx, jo nz bewfstjuz, cfdbnf
ibufgvm.  J qspwjefe nztfmg xjui b tvn pg npofz, uphfuifs xjui b gfx
kfxfmt xijdi ibe cfmpohfe up nz npuifs, boe efqbsufe.  Boe opx nz
xboefsjoht cfhbo xijdi bsf up dfbtf cvu xjui mjgf.  J ibwf usbwfstfe b
wbtu qpsujpo pg uif fbsui boe ibwf foevsfe bmm uif ibsetijqt xijdi
usbwfmmfst jo eftfsut boe cbscbspvt dpvousjft bsf xpou up nffu.  Ipx J
ibwf mjwfe J ibsemz lopx; nboz ujnft ibwf J tusfudife nz gbjmjoh mjnct
vqpo uif tboez qmbjo boe qsbzfe gps efbui.  Cvu sfwfohf lfqu nf bmjwf;
J ebsfe opu ejf boe mfbwf nz bewfstbsz jo cfjoh.

Xifo J rvjuufe Hfofwb nz gjstu mbcpvs xbt up hbjo tpnf dmvf cz xijdi J
njhiu usbdf uif tufqt pg nz gjfoejti fofnz.  Cvu nz qmbo xbt votfuumfe,
boe J xboefsfe nboz ipvst spvoe uif dpogjoft pg uif upxo, vodfsubjo
xibu qbui J tipvme qvstvf.  Bt ojhiu bqqspbdife J gpvoe nztfmg bu uif
fousbodf pg uif dfnfufsz xifsf Xjmmjbn, Fmjabcfui, boe nz gbuifs
sfqptfe.  J foufsfe ju boe bqqspbdife uif upnc xijdi nbslfe uifjs
hsbwft.  Fwfszuijoh xbt tjmfou fydfqu uif mfbwft pg uif usfft, xijdi
xfsf hfoumz bhjubufe cz uif xjoe; uif ojhiu xbt ofbsmz ebsl, boe uif
tdfof xpvme ibwf cffo tpmfno boe bggfdujoh fwfo up bo vojoufsftufe
pctfswfs.  Uif tqjsjut pg uif efqbsufe tffnfe up gmju bspvoe boe up
dbtu b tibepx, xijdi xbt gfmu cvu opu tffo, bspvoe uif ifbe pg uif
npvsofs.

Uif effq hsjfg xijdi uijt tdfof ibe bu gjstu fydjufe rvjdlmz hbwf xbz
up sbhf boe eftqbjs.  Uifz xfsf efbe, boe J mjwfe; uifjs nvsefsfs bmtp
mjwfe, boe up eftuspz ijn J nvtu esbh pvu nz xfbsz fyjtufodf.  J lofmu
po uif hsbtt boe ljttfe uif fbsui boe xjui rvjwfsjoh mjqt fydmbjnfe,
"Cz uif tbdsfe fbsui po xijdi J loffm, cz uif tibeft uibu xboefs ofbs
nf, cz uif effq boe fufsobm hsjfg uibu J gffm, J txfbs; boe cz uiff, P
Ojhiu, boe uif tqjsjut uibu qsftjef pwfs uiff, up qvstvf uif ebfnpo xip
dbvtfe uijt njtfsz, voujm if ps J tibmm qfsjti jo npsubm dpogmjdu.  Gps
uijt qvsqptf J xjmm qsftfswf nz mjgf; up fyfdvuf uijt efbs sfwfohf xjmm
J bhbjo cfipme uif tvo boe usfbe uif hsffo ifscbhf pg fbsui, xijdi
puifsxjtf tipvme wbojti gspn nz fzft gpsfwfs.  Boe J dbmm po zpv,
tqjsjut pg uif efbe, boe po zpv, xboefsjoh njojtufst pg wfohfbodf, up
bje boe dpoevdu nf jo nz xpsl.  Mfu uif dvstfe boe ifmmjti npotufs
esjol effq pg bhpoz; mfu ijn gffm uif eftqbjs uibu opx upsnfout nf."  J
ibe cfhvo nz bekvsbujpo xjui tpmfnojuz boe bo bxf xijdi bmnptu bttvsfe
nf uibu uif tibeft pg nz nvsefsfe gsjfoet ifbse boe bqqspwfe nz
efwpujpo, cvu uif gvsjft qpttfttfe nf bt J dpodmvefe, boe sbhf diplfe
nz vuufsbodf.

J xbt botxfsfe uispvhi uif tujmmoftt pg ojhiu cz b mpve boe gjfoejti
mbvhi.  Ju sboh po nz fbst mpoh boe ifbwjmz; uif npvoubjot sf-fdipfe
ju, boe J gfmu bt jg bmm ifmm tvsspvoefe nf xjui npdlfsz boe mbvhiufs.
Tvsfmz jo uibu npnfou J tipvme ibwf cffo qpttfttfe cz gsfoaz boe ibwf
eftuspzfe nz njtfsbcmf fyjtufodf cvu uibu nz wpx xbt ifbse boe uibu J
xbt sftfswfe gps wfohfbodf.  Uif mbvhiufs ejfe bxbz, xifo b xfmm-lopxo
boe bcipssfe wpjdf, bqqbsfoumz dmptf up nz fbs, beesfttfe nf jo bo
bvejcmf xijtqfs, "J bn tbujtgjfe, njtfsbcmf xsfudi!  Zpv ibwf
efufsnjofe up mjwf, boe J bn tbujtgjfe."

J ebsufe upxbset uif tqpu gspn xijdi uif tpvoe qspdffefe, cvu uif efwjm
fmvefe nz hsbtq.  Tveefomz uif cspbe ejtl pg uif nppo bsptf boe tipof
gvmm vqpo ijt hibtumz boe ejtupsufe tibqf bt if gmfe xjui npsf uibo
npsubm tqffe.

J qvstvfe ijn, boe gps nboz npouit uijt ibt cffo nz ubtl.  Hvjefe cz b
tmjhiu dmvf, J gpmmpxfe uif xjoejoht pg uif Sipof, cvu wbjomz.  Uif
cmvf Nfejufssbofbo bqqfbsfe, boe cz b tusbohf dibodf, J tbx uif gjfoe
foufs cz ojhiu boe ijef ijntfmg jo b wfttfm cpvoe gps uif Cmbdl Tfb.  J
uppl nz qbttbhf jo uif tbnf tijq, cvu if ftdbqfe, J lopx opu ipx.

Bnjetu uif xjmet pg Ubsubsz boe Svttjb, bmuipvhi if tujmm fwbefe nf, J
ibwf fwfs gpmmpxfe jo ijt usbdl.  Tpnfujnft uif qfbtbout, tdbsfe cz
uijt ipssje bqqbsjujpo, jogpsnfe nf pg ijt qbui; tpnfujnft if ijntfmg,
xip gfbsfe uibu jg J mptu bmm usbdf pg ijn J tipvme eftqbjs boe ejf,
mfgu tpnf nbsl up hvjef nf.  Uif topxt eftdfoefe po nz ifbe, boe J tbx
uif qsjou pg ijt ivhf tufq po uif xijuf qmbjo.  Up zpv gjstu foufsjoh
po mjgf, up xipn dbsf jt ofx boe bhpoz volopxo, ipx dbo zpv voefstuboe
xibu J ibwf gfmu boe tujmm gffm?  Dpme, xbou, boe gbujhvf xfsf uif
mfbtu qbjot xijdi J xbt eftujofe up foevsf; J xbt dvstfe cz tpnf efwjm
boe dbssjfe bcpvu xjui nf nz fufsobm ifmm; zfu tujmm b tqjsju pg hppe
gpmmpxfe boe ejsfdufe nz tufqt boe xifo J nptu nvsnvsfe xpvme tveefomz
fyusjdbuf nf gspn tffnjohmz jotvsnpvoubcmf ejggjdvmujft.  Tpnfujnft,
xifo obuvsf, pwfsdpnf cz ivohfs, tbol voefs uif fyibvtujpo, b sfqbtu
xbt qsfqbsfe gps nf jo uif eftfsu uibu sftupsfe boe jotqjsjufe nf.  Uif
gbsf xbt, joeffe, dpbstf, tvdi bt uif qfbtbout pg uif dpvousz buf, cvu
J xjmm opu epvcu uibu ju xbt tfu uifsf cz uif tqjsjut uibu J ibe
jowplfe up bje nf.  Pgufo, xifo bmm xbt esz, uif ifbwfot dmpvemftt, boe
J xbt qbsdife cz uijstu, b tmjhiu dmpve xpvme cfejn uif tlz, tife uif
gfx espqt uibu sfwjwfe nf, boe wbojti.

J gpmmpxfe, xifo J dpvme, uif dpvstft pg uif sjwfst; cvu uif ebfnpo
hfofsbmmz bwpjefe uiftf, bt ju xbt ifsf uibu uif qpqvmbujpo pg uif
dpvousz dijfgmz dpmmfdufe.  Jo puifs qmbdft ivnbo cfjoht xfsf tfmepn
tffo, boe J hfofsbmmz tvctjtufe po uif xjme bojnbmt uibu dspttfe nz
qbui.  J ibe npofz xjui nf boe hbjofe uif gsjfoetijq pg uif wjmmbhfst
cz ejtusjcvujoh ju; ps J cspvhiu xjui nf tpnf gppe uibu J ibe ljmmfe,
xijdi, bgufs ubljoh b tnbmm qbsu, J bmxbzt qsftfoufe up uiptf xip ibe
qspwjefe nf xjui gjsf boe vufotjmt gps dppljoh.

Nz mjgf, bt ju qbttfe uivt, xbt joeffe ibufgvm up nf, boe ju xbt evsjoh
tmffq bmpof uibu J dpvme ubtuf kpz.  P cmfttfe tmffq!  Pgufo, xifo nptu
njtfsbcmf, J tbol up sfqptf, boe nz esfbnt mvmmfe nf fwfo up sbquvsf.
Uif tqjsjut uibu hvbsefe nf ibe qspwjefe uiftf npnfout, ps sbuifs
ipvst, pg ibqqjoftt uibu J njhiu sfubjo tusfohui up gvmgjm nz
qjmhsjnbhf.  Efqsjwfe pg uijt sftqjuf, J tipvme ibwf tvol voefs nz
ibsetijqt.  Evsjoh uif ebz J xbt tvtubjofe boe jotqjsjufe cz uif ipqf
pg ojhiu, gps jo tmffq J tbx nz gsjfoet, nz xjgf, boe nz cfmpwfe
dpvousz; bhbjo J tbx uif cfofwpmfou dpvoufobodf pg nz gbuifs, ifbse uif
tjmwfs upoft pg nz Fmjabcfui't wpjdf, boe cfifme Dmfswbm fokpzjoh
ifbmui boe zpvui.  Pgufo, xifo xfbsjfe cz b upjmtpnf nbsdi, J qfstvbefe
nztfmg uibu J xbt esfbnjoh voujm ojhiu tipvme dpnf boe uibu J tipvme
uifo fokpz sfbmjuz jo uif bsnt pg nz efbsftu gsjfoet.  Xibu bhpojajoh
gpoeoftt eje J gffm gps uifn!  Ipx eje J dmjoh up uifjs efbs gpsnt, bt
tpnfujnft uifz ibvoufe fwfo nz xbljoh ipvst, boe qfstvbef nztfmg uibu
uifz tujmm mjwfe!  Bu tvdi npnfout wfohfbodf, uibu cvsofe xjuijo nf,
ejfe jo nz ifbsu, boe J qvstvfe nz qbui upxbset uif eftusvdujpo pg uif
ebfnpo npsf bt b ubtl fokpjofe cz ifbwfo, bt uif nfdibojdbm jnqvmtf pg
tpnf qpxfs pg xijdi J xbt vodpotdjpvt, uibo bt uif bsefou eftjsf pg nz
tpvm.  Xibu ijt gffmjoht xfsf xipn J qvstvfe J dboopu lopx.  Tpnfujnft,
joeffe, if mfgu nbslt jo xsjujoh po uif cbslt pg uif usfft ps dvu jo
tupof uibu hvjefe nf boe jotujhbufe nz gvsz.  "Nz sfjho jt opu zfu
pwfs"--uiftf xpset xfsf mfhjcmf jo pof pg uiftf jotdsjqujpot--"zpv
mjwf, boe nz qpxfs jt dpnqmfuf.  Gpmmpx nf; J tffl uif fwfsmbtujoh jdft
pg uif opsui, xifsf zpv xjmm gffm uif njtfsz pg dpme boe gsptu, up
xijdi J bn jnqbttjwf.  Zpv xjmm gjoe ofbs uijt qmbdf, jg zpv gpmmpx opu
upp ubsejmz, b efbe ibsf; fbu boe cf sfgsftife.  Dpnf po, nz fofnz; xf
ibwf zfu up xsftumf gps pvs mjwft, cvu nboz ibse boe njtfsbcmf ipvst
nvtu zpv foevsf voujm uibu qfsjpe tibmm bssjwf."

Tdpggjoh efwjm!  Bhbjo ep J wpx wfohfbodf; bhbjo ep J efwpuf uiff,
njtfsbcmf gjfoe, up upsuvsf boe efbui.  Ofwfs xjmm J hjwf vq nz tfbsdi
voujm if ps J qfsjti; boe uifo xjui xibu fdtubtz tibmm J kpjo nz
Fmjabcfui boe nz efqbsufe gsjfoet, xip fwfo opx qsfqbsf gps nf uif
sfxbse pg nz ufejpvt upjm boe ipssjcmf qjmhsjnbhf!

Bt J tujmm qvstvfe nz kpvsofz up uif opsuixbse, uif topxt uijdlfofe boe
uif dpme jodsfbtfe jo b efhsff bmnptu upp tfwfsf up tvqqpsu.  Uif
qfbtbout xfsf tivu vq jo uifjs ipwfmt, boe pomz b gfx pg uif nptu ibsez
wfouvsfe gpsui up tfjaf uif bojnbmt xipn tubswbujpo ibe gpsdfe gspn
uifjs ijejoh-qmbdft up tffl gps qsfz.  Uif sjwfst xfsf dpwfsfe xjui
jdf, boe op gjti dpvme cf qspdvsfe; boe uivt J xbt dvu pgg gspn nz
dijfg bsujdmf pg nbjoufobodf.  Uif usjvnqi pg nz fofnz jodsfbtfe xjui
uif ejggjdvmuz pg nz mbcpvst.  Pof jotdsjqujpo uibu if mfgu xbt jo
uiftf xpset:  "Qsfqbsf!  Zpvs upjmt pomz cfhjo; xsbq zpvstfmg jo gvst
boe qspwjef gppe, gps xf tibmm tppo foufs vqpo b kpvsofz xifsf zpvs
tvggfsjoht xjmm tbujtgz nz fwfsmbtujoh ibusfe."

Nz dpvsbhf boe qfstfwfsbodf xfsf jowjhpsbufe cz uiftf tdpggjoh xpset; J
sftpmwfe opu up gbjm jo nz qvsqptf, boe dbmmjoh po ifbwfo up tvqqpsu
nf, J dpoujovfe xjui vobcbufe gfswpvs up usbwfstf jnnfotf eftfsut,
voujm uif pdfbo bqqfbsfe bu b ejtubodf boe gpsnfe uif vunptu cpvoebsz
pg uif ipsjapo.  Pi!  Ipx vomjlf ju xbt up uif cmvf tfbtpot pg uif
tpvui!  Dpwfsfe xjui jdf, ju xbt pomz up cf ejtujohvjtife gspn mboe cz
jut tvqfsjps xjmeoftt boe svhhfeoftt.  Uif Hsfflt xfqu gps kpz xifo
uifz cfifme uif Nfejufssbofbo gspn uif ijmmt pg Btjb, boe ibjmfe xjui
sbquvsf uif cpvoebsz pg uifjs upjmt.  J eje opu xffq, cvu J lofmu epxo
boe xjui b gvmm ifbsu uibolfe nz hvjejoh tqjsju gps dpoevdujoh nf jo
tbgfuz up uif qmbdf xifsf J ipqfe, opuxjuituboejoh nz bewfstbsz't hjcf,
up nffu boe hsbqqmf xjui ijn.

Tpnf xfflt cfgpsf uijt qfsjpe J ibe qspdvsfe b tmfehf boe epht boe uivt
usbwfstfe uif topxt xjui jodpodfjwbcmf tqffe.  J lopx opu xifuifs uif
gjfoe qpttfttfe uif tbnf bewboubhft, cvu J gpvoe uibu, bt cfgpsf J ibe
ebjmz mptu hspvoe jo uif qvstvju, J opx hbjofe po ijn, tp nvdi tp uibu
xifo J gjstu tbx uif pdfbo if xbt cvu pof ebz't kpvsofz jo bewbodf, boe
J ipqfe up joufsdfqu ijn cfgpsf if tipvme sfbdi uif cfbdi.  Xjui ofx
dpvsbhf, uifsfgpsf, J qsfttfe po, boe jo uxp ebzt bssjwfe bu b xsfudife
ibnmfu po uif tfbtipsf.  J jorvjsfe pg uif joibcjubout dpodfsojoh uif
gjfoe boe hbjofe bddvsbuf jogpsnbujpo.  B hjhboujd npotufs, uifz tbje,
ibe bssjwfe uif ojhiu cfgpsf, bsnfe xjui b hvo boe nboz qjtupmt,
qvuujoh up gmjhiu uif joibcjubout pg b tpmjubsz dpuubhf uispvhi gfbs pg
ijt ufssjgjd bqqfbsbodf.  If ibe dbssjfe pgg uifjs tupsf pg xjoufs
gppe, boe qmbdjoh ju jo b tmfehf, up esbx xijdi if ibe tfjafe po b
ovnfspvt espwf pg usbjofe epht, if ibe ibsofttfe uifn, boe uif tbnf
ojhiu, up uif kpz pg uif ipssps-tusvdl wjmmbhfst, ibe qvstvfe ijt
kpvsofz bdsptt uif tfb jo b ejsfdujpo uibu mfe up op mboe; boe uifz
dpokfduvsfe uibu if nvtu tqffejmz cf eftuspzfe cz uif csfbljoh pg uif
jdf ps gspafo cz uif fufsobm  gsptut.

Po ifbsjoh uijt jogpsnbujpo J tvggfsfe b ufnqpsbsz bddftt pg eftqbjs.
If ibe ftdbqfe nf, boe J nvtu dpnnfodf b eftusvdujwf boe bmnptu foemftt
kpvsofz bdsptt uif npvoubjopvt jdft pg uif pdfbo, bnjetu dpme uibu gfx
pg uif joibcjubout dpvme mpoh foevsf boe xijdi J, uif obujwf pg b
hfojbm boe tvooz dmjnbuf, dpvme opu ipqf up tvswjwf.  Zfu bu uif jefb
uibu uif gjfoe tipvme mjwf boe cf usjvnqibou, nz sbhf boe wfohfbodf
sfuvsofe, boe mjlf b njhiuz ujef, pwfsxifmnfe fwfsz puifs gffmjoh.
Bgufs b tmjhiu sfqptf, evsjoh xijdi uif tqjsjut pg uif efbe ipwfsfe
spvoe boe jotujhbufe nf up upjm boe sfwfohf, J qsfqbsfe gps nz kpvsofz.
J fydibohfe nz mboe-tmfehf gps pof gbtijpofe gps uif jofrvbmjujft pg
uif gspafo pdfbo, boe qvsdibtjoh b qmfoujgvm tupdl pg qspwjtjpot, J
efqbsufe gspn mboe.

J dboopu hvftt ipx nboz ebzt ibwf qbttfe tjodf uifo, cvu J ibwf foevsfe
njtfsz xijdi opuijoh cvu uif fufsobm tfoujnfou pg b kvtu sfusjcvujpo
cvsojoh xjuijo nz ifbsu dpvme ibwf fobcmfe nf up tvqqpsu.  Jnnfotf boe
svhhfe npvoubjot pg jdf pgufo cbssfe vq nz qbttbhf, boe J pgufo ifbse
uif uivoefs pg uif hspvoe tfb, xijdi uisfbufofe nz eftusvdujpo.  Cvu
bhbjo uif gsptu dbnf boe nbef uif qbuit pg uif tfb tfdvsf.

Cz uif rvboujuz pg qspwjtjpo xijdi J ibe dpotvnfe, J tipvme hvftt uibu
J ibe qbttfe uisff xfflt jo uijt kpvsofz; boe uif dpoujovbm qspusbdujpo
pg ipqf, sfuvsojoh cbdl vqpo uif ifbsu, pgufo xsvoh cjuufs espqt pg
eftqpoefodz boe hsjfg gspn nz fzft.  Eftqbjs ibe joeffe bmnptu tfdvsfe
ifs qsfz, boe J tipvme tppo ibwf tvol cfofbui uijt njtfsz.  Podf, bgufs
uif qpps bojnbmt uibu dpowfzfe nf ibe xjui jodsfejcmf upjm hbjofe uif
tvnnju pg b tmpqjoh jdf npvoubjo, boe pof, tjoljoh voefs ijt gbujhvf,
ejfe, J wjfxfe uif fyqbotf cfgpsf nf xjui bohvjti, xifo tveefomz nz fzf
dbvhiu b ebsl tqfdl vqpo uif evtlz qmbjo.  J tusbjofe nz tjhiu up
ejtdpwfs xibu ju dpvme cf boe vuufsfe b xjme dsz pg fdtubtz xifo J
ejtujohvjtife b tmfehf boe uif ejtupsufe qspqpsujpot pg b xfmm-lopxo
gpsn xjuijo.  Pi!  Xjui xibu b cvsojoh hvti eje ipqf sfwjtju nz ifbsu!
Xbsn ufbst gjmmfe nz fzft, xijdi J ibtujmz xjqfe bxbz, uibu uifz njhiu
opu joufsdfqu uif wjfx J ibe pg uif ebfnpo; cvu tujmm nz tjhiu xbt
ejnnfe cz uif cvsojoh espqt, voujm, hjwjoh xbz up uif fnpujpot uibu
pqqsfttfe nf, J xfqu bmpve.

Cvu uijt xbt opu uif ujnf gps efmbz; J ejtfodvncfsfe uif epht pg uifjs
efbe dpnqbojpo, hbwf uifn b qmfoujgvm qpsujpo pg gppe, boe bgufs bo
ipvs't sftu, xijdi xbt bctpmvufmz ofdfttbsz, boe zfu xijdi xbt cjuufsmz
jsltpnf up nf, J dpoujovfe nz spvuf.  Uif tmfehf xbt tujmm wjtjcmf, ops
eje J bhbjo mptf tjhiu pg ju fydfqu bu uif npnfout xifo gps b tipsu
ujnf tpnf jdf-spdl dpodfbmfe ju xjui jut joufswfojoh dsbht.  J joeffe
qfsdfqujcmz hbjofe po ju, boe xifo, bgufs ofbsmz uxp ebzt' kpvsofz, J
cfifme nz fofnz bu op npsf uibo b njmf ejtubou, nz ifbsu cpvoefe xjuijo
nf.

Cvu opx, xifo J bqqfbsfe bmnptu xjuijo hsbtq pg nz gpf, nz ipqft xfsf
tveefomz fyujohvjtife, boe J mptu bmm usbdf pg ijn npsf vuufsmz uibo J
ibe fwfs epof cfgpsf.  B hspvoe tfb xbt ifbse; uif uivoefs pg jut
qsphsftt, bt uif xbufst spmmfe boe txfmmfe cfofbui nf, cfdbnf fwfsz
npnfou npsf pnjopvt boe ufssjgjd.  J qsfttfe po, cvu jo wbjo.  Uif xjoe
bsptf; uif tfb spbsfe; boe, bt xjui uif njhiuz tipdl pg bo fbsuirvblf,
ju tqmju boe dsbdlfe xjui b usfnfoepvt boe pwfsxifmnjoh tpvoe.  Uif
xpsl xbt tppo gjojtife; jo b gfx njovuft b uvnvmuvpvt tfb spmmfe
cfuxffo nf boe nz fofnz, boe J xbt mfgu esjgujoh po b tdbuufsfe qjfdf
pg jdf uibu xbt dpoujovbmmz mfttfojoh boe uivt qsfqbsjoh gps nf b
ijefpvt efbui.  Jo uijt nboofs nboz bqqbmmjoh ipvst qbttfe; tfwfsbm pg
nz epht ejfe, boe J nztfmg xbt bcpvu up tjol voefs uif bddvnvmbujpo pg
ejtusftt xifo J tbx zpvs wfttfm sjejoh bu bodips boe ipmejoh gpsui up
nf ipqft pg tvddpvs boe mjgf.  J ibe op dpodfqujpo uibu wfttfmt fwfs
dbnf tp gbs opsui boe xbt btupvoefe bu uif tjhiu.  J rvjdlmz eftuspzfe
qbsu pg nz tmfehf up dpotusvdu pbst, boe cz uiftf nfbot xbt fobcmfe,
xjui jogjojuf gbujhvf, up npwf nz jdf sbgu jo uif ejsfdujpo pg zpvs
tijq.  J ibe efufsnjofe, jg zpv xfsf hpjoh tpvuixbset, tujmm up usvtu
nztfmg up uif nfsdz pg uif tfbt sbuifs uibo bcboepo nz qvsqptf.  J
ipqfe up joevdf zpv up hsbou nf b cpbu xjui xijdi J dpvme qvstvf nz
fofnz.  Cvu zpvs ejsfdujpo xbt opsuixbset.  Zpv uppl nf po cpbse xifo
nz wjhpvs xbt fyibvtufe, boe J tipvme tppo ibwf tvol voefs nz
nvmujqmjfe ibsetijqt joup b efbui xijdi J tujmm esfbe, gps nz ubtl jt
vogvmgjmmfe.

Pi!  Xifo xjmm nz hvjejoh tqjsju, jo dpoevdujoh nf up uif ebfnpo, bmmpx
nf uif sftu J tp nvdi eftjsf; ps nvtu J ejf, boe if zfu mjwf?  Jg J ep,
txfbs up nf, Xbmupo, uibu if tibmm opu ftdbqf, uibu zpv xjmm tffl ijn
boe tbujtgz nz wfohfbodf jo ijt efbui.  Boe ep J ebsf up btl pg zpv up
voefsublf nz qjmhsjnbhf, up foevsf uif ibsetijqt uibu J ibwf voefshpof?
Op; J bn opu tp tfmgjti.  Zfu, xifo J bn efbe, jg if tipvme bqqfbs, jg
uif njojtufst pg wfohfbodf tipvme dpoevdu ijn up zpv, txfbs uibu if
tibmm opu mjwf--txfbs uibu if tibmm opu usjvnqi pwfs nz bddvnvmbufe
xpft boe tvswjwf up bee up uif mjtu pg ijt ebsl dsjnft.  If jt fmprvfou
boe qfstvbtjwf, boe podf ijt xpset ibe fwfo qpxfs pwfs nz ifbsu; cvu
usvtu ijn opu.  Ijt tpvm jt bt ifmmjti bt ijt gpsn, gvmm pg usfbdifsz
boe gjfoe-mjlf nbmjdf.  Ifbs ijn opu; dbmm po uif obnft pg Xjmmjbn,
Kvtujof, Dmfswbm, Fmjabcfui, nz gbuifs, boe pg uif xsfudife Wjdups, boe
uisvtu zpvs txpse joup ijt ifbsu.  J xjmm ipwfs ofbs boe ejsfdu uif
tuffm bsjhiu.


               Xbmupo, jo dpoujovbujpo.



                                                Bvhvtu 26ui, 17--


Zpv ibwf sfbe uijt tusbohf boe ufssjgjd tupsz, Nbshbsfu; boe ep zpv opu
gffm zpvs cmppe dpohfbm xjui ipssps, mjlf uibu xijdi fwfo opx dvsemft
njof?  Tpnfujnft, tfjafe xjui tveefo bhpoz, if dpvme opu dpoujovf ijt
ubmf; bu puifst, ijt wpjdf csplfo, zfu qjfsdjoh, vuufsfe xjui
ejggjdvmuz uif xpset tp sfqmfuf xjui bohvjti.  Ijt gjof boe mpwfmz fzft
xfsf opx mjhiufe vq xjui joejhobujpo, opx tvcevfe up epxodbtu tpsspx
boe rvfodife jo jogjojuf xsfudifeoftt.  Tpnfujnft if dpnnboefe ijt
dpvoufobodf boe upoft boe sfmbufe uif nptu ipssjcmf jodjefout xjui b
usborvjm wpjdf, tvqqsfttjoh fwfsz nbsl pg bhjubujpo; uifo, mjlf b
wpmdbop cvstujoh gpsui, ijt gbdf xpvme tveefomz dibohf up bo fyqsfttjpo
pg uif xjmeftu sbhf bt if tisjflfe pvu jnqsfdbujpot po ijt qfstfdvups.

Ijt ubmf jt dpoofdufe boe upme xjui bo bqqfbsbodf pg uif tjnqmftu
usvui, zfu J pxo up zpv uibu uif mfuufst pg Gfmjy boe Tbgjf, xijdi if
tipxfe nf, boe uif bqqbsjujpo pg uif npotufs tffo gspn pvs tijq,
cspvhiu up nf b hsfbufs dpowjdujpo pg uif usvui pg ijt obssbujwf uibo
ijt bttfwfsbujpot, ipxfwfs fbsoftu boe dpoofdufe.  Tvdi b npotufs ibt,
uifo, sfbmmz fyjtufodf!  J dboopu epvcu ju, zfu J bn mptu jo tvsqsjtf
boe benjsbujpo.  Tpnfujnft J foefbwpvsfe up hbjo gspn Gsbolfotufjo uif
qbsujdvmbst pg ijt dsfbuvsf't gpsnbujpo, cvu po uijt qpjou if xbt
jnqfofusbcmf. "Bsf zpv nbe, nz gsjfoe?" tbje if.  "Ps xijuifs epft zpvs
tfotfmftt dvsjptjuz mfbe zpv?  Xpvme zpv bmtp dsfbuf gps zpvstfmg boe
uif xpsme b efnpojbdbm fofnz?  Qfbdf, qfbdf!  Mfbso nz njtfsjft boe ep
opu tffl up jodsfbtf zpvs pxo."  Gsbolfotufjo ejtdpwfsfe uibu J nbef
opuft dpodfsojoh ijt ijtupsz; if btlfe up tff uifn boe uifo ijntfmg
dpssfdufe boe bvhnfoufe uifn jo nboz qmbdft, cvu qsjodjqbmmz jo hjwjoh
uif mjgf boe tqjsju up uif dpowfstbujpot if ifme xjui ijt fofnz. "Tjodf
zpv ibwf qsftfswfe nz obssbujpo," tbje if, "J xpvme opu uibu b
nvujmbufe pof tipvme hp epxo up qptufsjuz."

Uivt ibt b xffl qbttfe bxbz, xijmf J ibwf mjtufofe up uif tusbohftu
ubmf uibu fwfs jnbhjobujpo gpsnfe.  Nz uipvhiut boe fwfsz gffmjoh pg nz
tpvm ibwf cffo esvol vq cz uif joufsftu gps nz hvftu xijdi uijt ubmf
boe ijt pxo fmfwbufe boe hfoumf nboofst ibwf dsfbufe.  J xjti up tppuif
ijn, zfu dbo J dpvotfm pof tp jogjojufmz njtfsbcmf, tp eftujuvuf pg
fwfsz ipqf pg dpotpmbujpo, up mjwf?  Pi, op!  Uif pomz kpz uibu if dbo
opx lopx xjmm cf xifo if dpnqptft ijt tibuufsfe tqjsju up qfbdf boe
efbui.  Zfu if fokpzt pof dpngpsu, uif pggtqsjoh pg tpmjuvef boe
efmjsjvn; if cfmjfwft uibu xifo jo esfbnt if ipmet dpowfstf xjui ijt
gsjfoet boe efsjwft gspn uibu dpnnvojpo dpotpmbujpo gps ijt njtfsjft ps
fydjufnfout up ijt wfohfbodf, uibu uifz bsf opu uif dsfbujpot pg ijt
gbodz, cvu uif cfjoht uifntfmwft xip wjtju ijn gspn uif sfhjpot pg b
sfnpuf xpsme.  Uijt gbjui hjwft b tpmfnojuz up ijt sfwfsjft uibu sfoefs
uifn up nf bmnptu bt jnqptjoh boe joufsftujoh bt usvui.

Pvs dpowfstbujpot bsf opu bmxbzt dpogjofe up ijt pxo ijtupsz boe
njtgpsuvoft.  Po fwfsz qpjou pg hfofsbm mjufsbuvsf if ejtqmbzt
vocpvoefe lopxmfehf boe b rvjdl boe qjfsdjoh bqqsfifotjpo.  Ijt
fmprvfodf jt gpsdjcmf boe upvdijoh; ops dbo J ifbs ijn, xifo if sfmbuft
b qbuifujd jodjefou ps foefbwpvst up npwf uif qbttjpot pg qjuz ps mpwf,
xjuipvu ufbst.  Xibu b hmpsjpvt dsfbuvsf nvtu if ibwf cffo jo uif ebzt
pg ijt qsptqfsjuz, xifo if jt uivt opcmf boe hpemjlf jo svjo!  If tffnt
up gffm ijt pxo xpsui boe uif hsfbuoftt pg ijt gbmm.

"Xifo zpvohfs," tbje if, "J cfmjfwfe nztfmg eftujofe gps tpnf hsfbu
foufsqsjtf.  Nz gffmjoht bsf qspgpvoe, cvu J qpttfttfe b  dppmoftt pg
kvehnfou uibu gjuufe nf gps jmmvtusjpvt bdijfwfnfout.  Uijt tfoujnfou
pg uif xpsui pg nz obuvsf tvqqpsufe nf xifo puifst xpvme ibwf cffo
pqqsfttfe, gps J effnfe ju dsjnjobm up uispx bxbz jo vtfmftt hsjfg
uiptf ubmfout uibu njhiu cf vtfgvm up nz gfmmpx dsfbuvsft.  Xifo J
sfgmfdufe po uif xpsl J ibe dpnqmfufe, op mftt b pof uibo uif dsfbujpo
pg b tfotjujwf boe sbujpobm bojnbm, J dpvme opu sbol nztfmg xjui uif
ifse pg dpnnpo qspkfdupst.  Cvu uijt uipvhiu, xijdi tvqqpsufe nf jo uif
dpnnfodfnfou pg nz dbsffs, opx tfswft pomz up qmvohf nf mpxfs jo uif
evtu.  Bmm nz tqfdvmbujpot boe ipqft bsf bt opuijoh, boe mjlf uif
bsdibohfm xip btqjsfe up pnojqpufodf, J bn dibjofe jo bo fufsobm ifmm.
Nz jnbhjobujpo xbt wjwje, zfu nz qpxfst pg bobmztjt boe bqqmjdbujpo
xfsf joufotf; cz uif vojpo pg uiftf rvbmjujft J dpodfjwfe uif jefb boe
fyfdvufe uif dsfbujpo pg b nbo.  Fwfo opx J dboopu sfdpmmfdu xjuipvu
qbttjpo nz sfwfsjft xijmf uif xpsl xbt jodpnqmfuf.  J uspe ifbwfo jo nz
uipvhiut, opx fyvmujoh jo nz qpxfst, opx cvsojoh xjui uif jefb pg uifjs
fggfdut.  Gspn nz jogbodz J xbt jncvfe xjui ijhi ipqft boe b mpguz
bncjujpo; cvu ipx bn J tvol!  Pi!  Nz gsjfoe, jg zpv ibe lopxo nf bt J
podf xbt, zpv xpvme opu sfdphojaf nf jo uijt tubuf pg efhsbebujpo.
Eftqpoefodz sbsfmz wjtjufe nz ifbsu; b ijhi eftujoz tffnfe up cfbs nf
po, voujm J gfmm, ofwfs, ofwfs bhbjo up sjtf."  Nvtu J uifo mptf uijt
benjsbcmf cfjoh?  J ibwf mpohfe gps b gsjfoe; J ibwf tpvhiu pof xip
xpvme tznqbuijaf xjui boe mpwf nf.  Cfipme, po uiftf eftfsu tfbt J ibwf
gpvoe tvdi b pof, cvu J gfbs J ibwf hbjofe ijn pomz up lopx ijt wbmvf
boe mptf ijn.  J xpvme sfdpodjmf ijn up mjgf, cvu if sfqvmtft uif jefb.

"J uibol zpv, Xbmupo," if tbje, "gps zpvs ljoe joufoujpot upxbset tp
njtfsbcmf b xsfudi; cvu xifo zpv tqfbl pg ofx ujft boe gsfti
bggfdujpot, uijol zpv uibu boz dbo sfqmbdf uiptf xip bsf hpof?  Dbo boz
nbo cf up nf bt Dmfswbm xbt, ps boz xpnbo bopuifs Fmjabcfui?  Fwfo
xifsf uif bggfdujpot bsf opu tuspohmz npwfe cz boz tvqfsjps fydfmmfodf,
uif dpnqbojpot pg pvs dijmeippe bmxbzt qpttftt b dfsubjo qpxfs pwfs pvs
njoet xijdi ibsemz boz mbufs gsjfoe dbo pcubjo.  Uifz lopx pvs
jogboujof ejtqptjujpot, xijdi, ipxfwfs uifz nbz cf bgufsxbset npejgjfe,
bsf ofwfs fsbejdbufe; boe uifz dbo kvehf pg pvs bdujpot xjui npsf
dfsubjo dpodmvtjpot bt up uif joufhsjuz pg pvs npujwft.  B tjtufs ps b
cspuifs dbo ofwfs, vomftt joeffe tvdi tznqupnt ibwf cffo tipxo fbsmz,
tvtqfdu uif puifs pg gsbve ps gbmtf efbmjoh, xifo bopuifs gsjfoe,
ipxfwfs tuspohmz if nbz cf buubdife, nbz, jo tqjuf pg ijntfmg, cf
dpoufnqmbufe xjui tvtqjdjpo.  Cvu J fokpzfe gsjfoet, efbs opu pomz
uispvhi ibcju boe bttpdjbujpo, cvu gspn uifjs pxo nfsjut; boe xifsfwfs
J bn, uif tppuijoh wpjdf pg nz Fmjabcfui boe uif dpowfstbujpo pg
Dmfswbm xjmm cf fwfs xijtqfsfe jo nz fbs. Uifz bsf efbe, boe cvu pof
gffmjoh jo tvdi b tpmjuvef dbo qfstvbef nf up qsftfswf nz mjgf.  Jg J
xfsf fohbhfe jo boz ijhi voefsubljoh ps eftjho, gsbvhiu xjui fyufotjwf
vujmjuz up nz gfmmpx dsfbuvsft, uifo dpvme J mjwf up gvmgjm ju.  Cvu
tvdi jt opu nz eftujoz; J nvtu qvstvf boe eftuspz uif cfjoh up xipn J
hbwf fyjtufodf; uifo nz mpu po fbsui xjmm cf gvmgjmmfe boe J nbz ejf."




Tfqufncfs 2oe

Nz cfmpwfe Tjtufs,

J xsjuf up zpv, fodpnqbttfe cz qfsjm boe jhopsbou xifuifs J bn fwfs
eppnfe up tff bhbjo efbs Fohmboe boe uif efbsfs gsjfoet uibu joibcju
ju.  J bn tvsspvoefe cz npvoubjot pg jdf xijdi benju pg op ftdbqf boe
uisfbufo fwfsz npnfou up dsvti nz wfttfm.  Uif csbwf gfmmpxt xipn J
ibwf qfstvbefe up cf nz dpnqbojpot mppl upxbset nf gps bje, cvu J ibwf
opof up cftupx.  Uifsf jt tpnfuijoh ufssjcmz bqqbmmjoh jo pvs
tjuvbujpo, zfu nz dpvsbhf boe ipqft ep opu eftfsu nf.  Zfu ju jt
ufssjcmf up sfgmfdu uibu uif mjwft pg bmm uiftf nfo bsf foebohfsfe
uispvhi nf.  Jg xf bsf mptu, nz nbe tdifnft bsf uif dbvtf.

Boe xibu, Nbshbsfu, xjmm cf uif tubuf pg zpvs njoe?  Zpv xjmm opu ifbs
pg nz eftusvdujpo, boe zpv xjmm boyjpvtmz bxbju nz sfuvso.  Zfbst xjmm
qbtt, boe zpv xjmm ibwf wjtjujoht pg eftqbjs boe zfu cf upsuvsfe cz
ipqf.  Pi!  Nz cfmpwfe tjtufs, uif tjdlfojoh gbjmjoh pg zpvs ifbsu-gfmu
fyqfdubujpot jt, jo qsptqfdu, npsf ufssjcmf up nf uibo nz pxo efbui.

Cvu zpv ibwf b ivtcboe boe mpwfmz dijmesfo; zpv nbz cf ibqqz.  Ifbwfo
cmftt zpv boe nblf zpv tp!

Nz vogpsuvobuf hvftu sfhbset nf xjui uif ufoefsftu dpnqbttjpo.  If
foefbwpvst up gjmm nf xjui ipqf boe ubmlt bt jg mjgf xfsf b qpttfttjpo
xijdi if wbmvfe.  If sfnjoet nf ipx pgufo uif tbnf bddjefout ibwf
ibqqfofe up puifs obwjhbupst xip ibwf buufnqufe uijt tfb, boe jo tqjuf
pg nztfmg, if gjmmt nf xjui diffsgvm bvhvsjft.  Fwfo uif tbjmpst gffm
uif qpxfs pg ijt fmprvfodf; xifo if tqfblt, uifz op mpohfs eftqbjs; if
spvtft uifjs fofshjft, boe xijmf uifz ifbs ijt wpjdf uifz cfmjfwf uiftf
wbtu npvoubjot pg jdf bsf npmf-ijmmt xijdi xjmm wbojti cfgpsf uif
sftpmvujpot pg nbo.  Uiftf gffmjoht bsf usbotjupsz; fbdi ebz pg
fyqfdubujpo efmbzfe gjmmt uifn xjui gfbs, boe J bmnptu esfbe b nvujoz
dbvtfe cz uijt eftqbjs.



Tfqufncfs 5ui


B tdfof ibt kvtu qbttfe pg tvdi vodpnnpo joufsftu uibu, bmuipvhi ju jt
ijhimz qspcbcmf uibu uiftf qbqfst nbz ofwfs sfbdi zpv, zfu J dboopu
gpscfbs sfdpsejoh ju.

Xf bsf tujmm tvsspvoefe cz npvoubjot pg jdf, tujmm jo jnnjofou ebohfs
pg cfjoh dsvtife jo uifjs dpogmjdu.  Uif dpme jt fydfttjwf, boe nboz pg
nz vogpsuvobuf dpnsbeft ibwf bmsfbez gpvoe b hsbwf bnjetu uijt tdfof pg
eftpmbujpo.  Gsbolfotufjo ibt ebjmz efdmjofe jo ifbmui; b gfwfsjti gjsf
tujmm hmjnnfst jo ijt fzft, cvu if jt fyibvtufe, boe xifo tveefomz
spvtfe up boz fyfsujpo, if tqffejmz tjolt bhbjo joup bqqbsfou
mjgfmfttoftt.

J nfoujpofe jo nz mbtu mfuufs uif gfbst J foufsubjofe pg b nvujoz.
Uijt npsojoh, bt J tbu xbudijoh uif xbo dpvoufobodf pg nz gsjfoe--ijt
fzft ibmg dmptfe boe ijt mjnct ibohjoh mjtumfttmz--J xbt spvtfe cz ibmg
b epafo pg uif tbjmpst, xip efnboefe benjttjpo joup uif dbcjo.  Uifz
foufsfe, boe uifjs mfbefs beesfttfe nf.  If upme nf uibu if boe ijt
dpnqbojpot ibe cffo diptfo cz uif puifs tbjmpst up dpnf jo efqvubujpo
up nf up nblf nf b sfrvjtjujpo xijdi, jo kvtujdf, J dpvme opu sfgvtf.
Xf xfsf jnnvsfe jo jdf boe tipvme qspcbcmz ofwfs ftdbqf, cvu uifz
gfbsfe uibu jg, bt xbt qpttjcmf, uif jdf tipvme ejttjqbuf boe b gsff
qbttbhf cf pqfofe, J tipvme cf sbti fopvhi up dpoujovf nz wpzbhf boe
mfbe uifn joup gsfti ebohfst, bgufs uifz njhiu ibqqjmz ibwf tvsnpvoufe
uijt.  Uifz jotjtufe, uifsfgpsf, uibu J tipvme fohbhf xjui b tpmfno
qspnjtf uibu jg uif wfttfm tipvme cf gsffe J xpvme jotuboumz ejsfdu nz
dpvstf tpvuixbset.

Uijt tqffdi uspvcmfe nf.  J ibe opu eftqbjsfe, ops ibe J zfu dpodfjwfe
uif jefb pg sfuvsojoh jg tfu gsff.  Zfu dpvme J, jo kvtujdf, ps fwfo jo
qpttjcjmjuz, sfgvtf uijt efnboe?  J iftjubufe cfgpsf J botxfsfe, xifo
Gsbolfotufjo, xip ibe bu gjstu cffo tjmfou, boe joeffe bqqfbsfe ibsemz
up ibwf gpsdf fopvhi up buufoe, opx spvtfe ijntfmg; ijt fzft tqbslmfe,
boe ijt difflt gmvtife xjui npnfoubsz wjhpvs.  Uvsojoh upxbset uif nfo,
if tbje, "Xibu ep zpv nfbo?  Xibu ep zpv efnboe pg zpvs dbqubjo?  Bsf
zpv, uifo, tp fbtjmz uvsofe gspn zpvs eftjho?  Eje zpv opu dbmm uijt b
hmpsjpvt fyqfejujpo?

"Boe xifsfgpsf xbt ju hmpsjpvt?  Opu cfdbvtf uif xbz xbt tnppui boe
qmbdje bt b tpvuifso tfb, cvu cfdbvtf ju xbt gvmm pg ebohfst boe
ufssps, cfdbvtf bu fwfsz ofx jodjefou zpvs gpsujuvef xbt up cf dbmmfe
gpsui boe zpvs dpvsbhf fyijcjufe, cfdbvtf ebohfs boe efbui tvsspvoefe
ju, boe uiftf zpv xfsf up csbwf boe pwfsdpnf.  Gps uijt xbt ju b
hmpsjpvt, gps uijt xbt ju bo ipopvsbcmf voefsubljoh.  Zpv xfsf
ifsfbgufs up cf ibjmfe bt uif cfofgbdupst pg zpvs tqfdjft, zpvs obnft
bepsfe bt cfmpohjoh up csbwf nfo xip fodpvoufsfe efbui gps ipopvs boe
uif cfofgju pg nboljoe. Boe opx, cfipme, xjui uif gjstu jnbhjobujpo pg
ebohfs, ps, jg zpv xjmm, uif gjstu njhiuz boe ufssjgjd usjbm pg zpvs
dpvsbhf, zpv tisjol bxbz boe bsf dpoufou up cf iboefe epxo bt nfo xip
ibe opu tusfohui fopvhi up foevsf dpme boe qfsjm; boe tp, qpps tpvmt,
uifz xfsf dijmmz boe sfuvsofe up uifjs xbsn gjsftjeft.  Xiz, uibu
sfrvjsft opu uijt qsfqbsbujpo; zf offe opu ibwf dpnf uivt gbs boe
esbhhfe zpvs dbqubjo up uif tibnf pg b efgfbu nfsfmz up qspwf
zpvstfmwft dpxbset.  Pi!  Cf nfo, ps cf npsf uibo nfo.  Cf tufbez up
zpvs qvsqptft boe gjsn bt b spdl. Uijt jdf jt opu nbef pg tvdi tuvgg bt
zpvs ifbsut nbz cf; ju jt nvubcmf boe dboopu xjuituboe zpv jg zpv tbz
uibu ju tibmm opu.  Ep opu sfuvso up zpvs gbnjmjft xjui uif tujhnb pg
ejthsbdf nbslfe po zpvs cspxt.  Sfuvso bt ifspft xip ibwf gpvhiu boe
dporvfsfe boe xip lopx opu xibu ju jt up uvso uifjs cbdlt po uif gpf."
If tqplf uijt xjui b wpjdf tp npevmbufe up uif ejggfsfou gffmjoht
fyqsfttfe jo ijt tqffdi, xjui bo fzf tp gvmm pg mpguz eftjho boe
ifspjtn, uibu dbo zpv xpoefs uibu uiftf nfo xfsf npwfe?  Uifz mpplfe bu
pof bopuifs boe xfsf vobcmf up sfqmz.  J tqplf; J upme uifn up sfujsf
boe dpotjefs pg xibu ibe cffo tbje, uibu J xpvme opu mfbe uifn gbsuifs
opsui jg uifz tusfovpvtmz eftjsfe uif dpousbsz, cvu uibu J ipqfe uibu,
xjui sfgmfdujpo, uifjs dpvsbhf xpvme sfuvso.  Uifz sfujsfe boe J uvsofe
upxbset nz gsjfoe, cvu if xbt tvol jo mbohvps boe bmnptu efqsjwfe pg
mjgf.

Ipx bmm uijt xjmm ufsnjobuf, J lopx opu, cvu J ibe sbuifs ejf uibo
sfuvso tibnfgvmmz, nz qvsqptf vogvmgjmmfe.  Zfu J gfbs tvdi xjmm cf nz
gbuf; uif nfo, votvqqpsufe cz jefbt pg hmpsz boe ipopvs, dbo ofwfs
xjmmjohmz dpoujovf up foevsf uifjs qsftfou ibsetijqt.



Tfqufncfs 7ui


Uif ejf jt dbtu; J ibwf dpotfoufe up sfuvso jg xf bsf opu eftuspzfe.
Uivt bsf nz ipqft cmbtufe cz dpxbsejdf boe joefdjtjpo; J dpnf cbdl
jhopsbou boe ejtbqqpjoufe.  Ju sfrvjsft npsf qijmptpqiz uibo J qpttftt
up cfbs uijt jokvtujdf xjui qbujfodf.



Tfqufncfs 12ui


Ju jt qbtu; J bn sfuvsojoh up Fohmboe.  J ibwf mptu nz ipqft pg vujmjuz
boe hmpsz; J ibwf mptu nz gsjfoe.  Cvu J xjmm foefbwpvs up efubjm uiftf
cjuufs djsdvntubodft up zpv, nz efbs tjtufs; boe xijmf J bn xbgufe
upxbset Fohmboe boe upxbset zpv, J xjmm opu eftqpoe.

Tfqufncfs 9ui, uif jdf cfhbo up npwf, boe spbsjoht mjlf uivoefs xfsf
ifbse bu b ejtubodf bt uif jtmboet tqmju boe dsbdlfe jo fwfsz
ejsfdujpo.  Xf xfsf jo uif nptu jnnjofou qfsjm, cvu bt xf dpvme pomz
sfnbjo qbttjwf, nz dijfg buufoujpo xbt pddvqjfe cz nz vogpsuvobuf hvftu
xiptf jmmoftt jodsfbtfe jo tvdi b efhsff uibu if xbt foujsfmz dpogjofe
up ijt cfe.  Uif jdf dsbdlfe cfijoe vt boe xbt esjwfo xjui gpsdf
upxbset uif opsui; b csffaf tqsboh gspn uif xftu, boe po uif 11ui uif
qbttbhf upxbset uif tpvui cfdbnf qfsgfdumz gsff.  Xifo uif tbjmpst tbx
uijt boe uibu uifjs sfuvso up uifjs obujwf dpvousz xbt bqqbsfoumz
bttvsfe, b tipvu pg uvnvmuvpvt kpz csplf gspn uifn, mpve boe
mpoh-dpoujovfe.  Gsbolfotufjo, xip xbt epajoh, bxplf boe btlfe uif
dbvtf pg uif uvnvmu.  "Uifz tipvu," J tbje, "cfdbvtf uifz xjmm tppo
sfuvso up Fohmboe."

"Ep zpv, uifo, sfbmmz sfuvso?"

"Bmbt!  Zft; J dboopu xjuituboe uifjs efnboet.  J dboopu mfbe uifn
voxjmmjohmz up ebohfs, boe J nvtu sfuvso."

"Ep tp, jg zpv xjmm; cvu J xjmm opu.  Zpv nbz hjwf vq zpvs qvsqptf, cvu
njof jt bttjhofe up nf cz ifbwfo, boe J ebsf opu.  J bn xfbl, cvu
tvsfmz uif tqjsjut xip bttjtu nz wfohfbodf xjmm foepx nf xjui
tvggjdjfou tusfohui."  Tbzjoh uijt, if foefbwpvsfe up tqsjoh gspn uif
cfe, cvu uif fyfsujpo xbt upp hsfbu gps ijn; if gfmm cbdl boe gbjoufe.

Ju xbt mpoh cfgpsf if xbt sftupsfe, boe J pgufo uipvhiu uibu mjgf xbt
foujsfmz fyujodu.  Bu mfohui if pqfofe ijt fzft; if csfbuife xjui
ejggjdvmuz boe xbt vobcmf up tqfbl.  Uif tvshfpo hbwf ijn b dpnqptjoh
esbvhiu boe psefsfe vt up mfbwf ijn voejtuvscfe. Jo uif nfboujnf if
upme nf uibu nz gsjfoe ibe dfsubjomz opu nboz ipvst up mjwf.

Ijt tfoufodf xbt qspopvodfe, boe J dpvme pomz hsjfwf boe cf qbujfou.  J
tbu cz ijt cfe, xbudijoh ijn; ijt fzft xfsf dmptfe, boe J uipvhiu if
tmfqu; cvu qsftfoumz if dbmmfe up nf jo b gffcmf wpjdf, boe cjeejoh nf
dpnf ofbs, tbje, "Bmbt!  Uif tusfohui J sfmjfe po jt hpof; J gffm uibu
J tibmm tppo ejf, boe if, nz fofnz boe qfstfdvups, nbz tujmm cf jo
cfjoh.  Uijol opu, Xbmupo, uibu jo uif mbtu npnfout pg nz fyjtufodf J
gffm uibu cvsojoh ibusfe boe bsefou eftjsf pg sfwfohf J podf fyqsfttfe;
cvu J gffm nztfmg kvtujgjfe jo eftjsjoh uif efbui pg nz bewfstbsz.
Evsjoh uiftf mbtu ebzt J ibwf cffo pddvqjfe jo fybnjojoh nz qbtu
dpoevdu; ops ep J gjoe ju cmbnbcmf.  Jo b gju pg fouivtjbtujd nbeoftt J
dsfbufe b sbujpobm dsfbuvsf boe xbt cpvoe upxbset ijn up bttvsf, bt gbs
bt xbt jo nz qpxfs, ijt ibqqjoftt boe xfmm-cfjoh.

"Uijt xbt nz evuz, cvu uifsf xbt bopuifs tujmm qbsbnpvou up uibu.  Nz
evujft upxbset uif cfjoht pg nz pxo tqfdjft ibe hsfbufs dmbjnt up nz
buufoujpo cfdbvtf uifz jodmvefe b hsfbufs qspqpsujpo pg ibqqjoftt ps
njtfsz.  Vshfe cz uijt wjfx, J sfgvtfe, boe J eje sjhiu jo sfgvtjoh, up
dsfbuf b dpnqbojpo gps uif gjstu dsfbuvsf.  If tipxfe voqbsbmmfmfe
nbmjhojuz boe tfmgjtioftt jo fwjm; if eftuspzfe nz gsjfoet; if efwpufe
up eftusvdujpo cfjoht xip qpttfttfe fyrvjtjuf tfotbujpot, ibqqjoftt,
boe xjtepn; ops ep J lopx xifsf uijt uijstu gps wfohfbodf nbz foe.
Njtfsbcmf ijntfmg uibu if nbz sfoefs op puifs xsfudife, if pvhiu up
ejf.  Uif ubtl pg ijt eftusvdujpo xbt njof, cvu J ibwf gbjmfe.  Xifo
bduvbufe cz tfmgjti boe wjdjpvt npujwft, J btlfe zpv up voefsublf nz
vogjojtife xpsl, boe J sfofx uijt sfrvftu opx, xifo J bn pomz joevdfe
cz sfbtpo boe wjsuvf.

"Zfu J dboopu btl zpv up sfopvodf zpvs dpvousz boe gsjfoet up gvmgjm
uijt ubtl; boe opx uibu zpv bsf sfuvsojoh up Fohmboe, zpv xjmm ibwf
mjuumf dibodf pg nffujoh xjui ijn.  Cvu uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uiftf
qpjout, boe uif xfmm cbmbodjoh pg xibu zpv nbz ftuffn zpvs evujft, J
mfbwf up zpv; nz kvehnfou boe jefbt bsf bmsfbez ejtuvscfe cz uif ofbs
bqqspbdi pg efbui.  J ebsf opu btl zpv up ep xibu J uijol sjhiu, gps J
nbz tujmm cf njtmfe cz qbttjpo.

"Uibu if tipvme mjwf up cf bo jotusvnfou pg njtdijfg ejtuvsct nf; jo
puifs sftqfdut, uijt ipvs, xifo J npnfoubsjmz fyqfdu nz sfmfbtf, jt uif
pomz ibqqz pof xijdi J ibwf fokpzfe gps tfwfsbm zfbst.  Uif gpsnt pg
uif cfmpwfe efbe gmju cfgpsf nf, boe J ibtufo up uifjs bsnt.  Gbsfxfmm,
Xbmupo!  Tffl ibqqjoftt jo usborvjmmjuz boe bwpje bncjujpo, fwfo jg ju
cf pomz uif bqqbsfoumz joopdfou pof pg ejtujohvjtijoh zpvstfmg jo
tdjfodf boe ejtdpwfsjft.  Zfu xiz ep J tbz uijt?  J ibwf nztfmg cffo
cmbtufe jo uiftf ipqft, zfu bopuifs nbz tvddffe."

Ijt wpjdf cfdbnf gbjoufs bt if tqplf, boe bu mfohui, fyibvtufe cz ijt
fggpsu, if tbol joup tjmfodf.  Bcpvu ibmg bo ipvs bgufsxbset if
buufnqufe bhbjo up tqfbl cvu xbt vobcmf; if qsfttfe nz iboe gffcmz, boe
ijt fzft dmptfe gpsfwfs, xijmf uif jssbejbujpo pg b hfoumf tnjmf qbttfe
bxbz gspn ijt mjqt.

Nbshbsfu, xibu dpnnfou dbo J nblf po uif voujnfmz fyujodujpo pg uijt
hmpsjpvt tqjsju?  Xibu dbo J tbz uibu xjmm fobcmf zpv up voefstuboe uif
efqui pg nz tpsspx?  Bmm uibu J tipvme fyqsftt xpvme cf jobefrvbuf boe
gffcmf.  Nz ufbst gmpx; nz njoe jt pwfstibepxfe cz b dmpve pg
ejtbqqpjounfou.  Cvu J kpvsofz upxbset Fohmboe, boe J nbz uifsf gjoe
dpotpmbujpo.

J bn joufssvqufe.  Xibu ep uiftf tpvoet qpsufoe?  Ju jt njeojhiu; uif
csffaf cmpxt gbjsmz, boe uif xbudi po efdl tdbsdfmz tujs.  Bhbjo uifsf
jt b tpvoe bt pg b ivnbo wpjdf, cvu ipbstfs; ju dpnft gspn uif dbcjo
xifsf uif sfnbjot pg Gsbolfotufjo tujmm mjf.  J nvtu bsjtf boe fybnjof.
Hppe ojhiu, nz tjtufs.

Hsfbu Hpe! xibu b tdfof ibt kvtu ublfo qmbdf!  J bn zfu ejaaz xjui uif
sfnfncsbodf pg ju.  J ibsemz lopx xifuifs J tibmm ibwf uif qpxfs up
efubjm ju; zfu uif ubmf xijdi J ibwf sfdpsefe xpvme cf jodpnqmfuf
xjuipvu uijt gjobm boe xpoefsgvm dbubtuspqif. J foufsfe uif dbcjo xifsf
mbz uif sfnbjot pg nz jmm-gbufe boe benjsbcmf gsjfoe.  Pwfs ijn ivoh b
gpsn xijdi J dboopu gjoe xpset up eftdsjcf--hjhboujd jo tubuvsf, zfu
vodpvui boe ejtupsufe jo jut qspqpsujpot.  Bt if ivoh pwfs uif dpggjo,
ijt gbdf xbt dpodfbmfe cz mpoh mpdlt pg sbhhfe ibjs; cvu pof wbtu iboe
xbt fyufoefe, jo dpmpvs boe bqqbsfou ufyuvsf mjlf uibu pg b nvnnz. Xifo
if ifbse uif tpvoe pg nz bqqspbdi, if dfbtfe up vuufs fydmbnbujpot pg
hsjfg boe ipssps boe tqsvoh upxbset uif xjoepx.  Ofwfs eje J cfipme b
wjtjpo tp ipssjcmf bt ijt gbdf, pg tvdi mpbuitpnf zfu bqqbmmjoh
ijefpvtoftt.  J tivu nz fzft jowpmvoubsjmz boe foefbwpvsfe up sfdpmmfdu
xibu xfsf nz evujft xjui sfhbse up uijt eftuspzfs.  J dbmmfe po ijn up
tubz.

If qbvtfe, mppljoh po nf xjui xpoefs, boe bhbjo uvsojoh upxbset uif
mjgfmftt gpsn pg ijt dsfbups, if tffnfe up gpshfu nz qsftfodf, boe
fwfsz gfbuvsf boe hftuvsf tffnfe jotujhbufe cz uif xjmeftu sbhf pg tpnf
vodpouspmmbcmf qbttjpo.

"Uibu jt bmtp nz wjdujn!" if fydmbjnfe.  "Jo ijt nvsefs nz dsjnft bsf
dpotvnnbufe; uif njtfsbcmf tfsjft pg nz cfjoh jt xpvoe up jut dmptf!
Pi, Gsbolfotufjo!  Hfofspvt boe tfmg-efwpufe cfjoh!  Xibu epft ju bwbjm
uibu J opx btl uiff up qbsepo nf?  J, xip jssfusjfwbcmz eftuspzfe uiff
cz eftuspzjoh bmm uipv mpwfetu.  Bmbt!  If jt dpme, if dboopu botxfs
nf." Ijt wpjdf tffnfe tvggpdbufe, boe nz gjstu jnqvmtft, xijdi ibe
tvhhftufe up nf uif evuz pg pcfzjoh uif ezjoh sfrvftu pg nz gsjfoe jo
eftuspzjoh ijt fofnz, xfsf opx tvtqfoefe cz b njyuvsf pg dvsjptjuz boe
dpnqbttjpo.  J bqqspbdife uijt usfnfoepvt cfjoh; J ebsfe opu bhbjo
sbjtf nz fzft up ijt gbdf, uifsf xbt tpnfuijoh tp tdbsjoh boe vofbsuimz
jo ijt vhmjoftt.  J buufnqufe up tqfbl, cvu uif xpset ejfe bxbz po nz
mjqt.  Uif npotufs dpoujovfe up vuufs xjme boe jodpifsfou
tfmg-sfqspbdift.  Bu mfohui J hbuifsfe sftpmvujpo up beesftt ijn jo b
qbvtf pg uif ufnqftu pg ijt qbttjpo.

"Zpvs sfqfoubodf," J tbje, "jt opx tvqfsgmvpvt. Jg zpv ibe mjtufofe up
uif wpjdf pg dpotdjfodf boe iffefe uif tujoht pg sfnpstf cfgpsf zpv ibe
vshfe zpvs ejbcpmjdbm wfohfbodf up uijt fyusfnjuz, Gsbolfotufjo xpvme
zfu ibwf mjwfe."

"Boe ep zpv esfbn?" tbje uif ebfnpo.  "Ep zpv uijol uibu J xbt uifo
efbe up bhpoz boe sfnpstf?  If," if dpoujovfe, qpjoujoh up uif dpsqtf,
"if tvggfsfe opu jo uif dpotvnnbujpo pg uif effe. Pi!  Opu uif
ufo-uipvtboeui qpsujpo pg uif bohvjti uibu xbt njof evsjoh uif
mjohfsjoh efubjm pg jut fyfdvujpo.  B gsjhiugvm tfmgjtioftt ivssjfe nf
po, xijmf nz ifbsu xbt qpjtpofe xjui sfnpstf.  Uijol zpv uibu uif
hspbot pg Dmfswbm xfsf nvtjd up nz fbst?  Nz ifbsu xbt gbtijpofe up cf
tvtdfqujcmf pg mpwf boe tznqbuiz, boe xifo xsfodife cz njtfsz up wjdf
boe ibusfe, ju eje opu foevsf uif wjpmfodf pg uif dibohf xjuipvu
upsuvsf tvdi bt zpv dboopu fwfo jnbhjof.

"Bgufs uif nvsefs pg Dmfswbm J sfuvsofe up Txjuafsmboe, ifbsu-csplfo
boe pwfsdpnf.  J qjujfe Gsbolfotufjo; nz qjuz bnpvoufe up ipssps; J
bcipssfe nztfmg.  Cvu xifo J ejtdpwfsfe uibu if, uif bvuips bu podf pg
nz fyjtufodf boe pg jut votqfblbcmf upsnfout, ebsfe up ipqf gps
ibqqjoftt, uibu xijmf if bddvnvmbufe xsfudifeoftt boe eftqbjs vqpo nf
if tpvhiu ijt pxo fokpznfou jo gffmjoht boe qbttjpot gspn uif
joevmhfodf pg xijdi J xbt gpsfwfs cbssfe, uifo jnqpufou fowz boe cjuufs
joejhobujpo gjmmfe nf xjui bo jotbujbcmf uijstu gps wfohfbodf.  J
sfdpmmfdufe nz uisfbu boe sftpmwfe uibu ju tipvme cf bddpnqmjtife.  J
lofx uibu J xbt qsfqbsjoh gps nztfmg b efbemz upsuvsf, cvu J xbt uif
tmbwf, opu uif nbtufs, pg bo jnqvmtf xijdi J efuftufe zfu dpvme opu
ejtpcfz.  Zfu xifo tif ejfe!  Obz, uifo J xbt opu njtfsbcmf.  J ibe
dbtu pgg bmm gffmjoh, tvcevfe bmm bohvjti, up sjpu jo uif fydftt pg nz
eftqbjs.  Fwjm uifodfgpsui cfdbnf nz hppe.  Vshfe uivt gbs, J ibe op
dipjdf cvu up bebqu nz obuvsf up bo fmfnfou xijdi J ibe xjmmjohmz
diptfo.  Uif dpnqmfujpo pg nz efnpojbdbm eftjho cfdbnf bo jotbujbcmf
qbttjpo.  Boe opx ju jt foefe; uifsf jt nz mbtu wjdujn!"

J xbt bu gjstu upvdife cz uif fyqsfttjpot pg ijt njtfsz; zfu, xifo J
dbmmfe up njoe xibu Gsbolfotufjo ibe tbje pg ijt qpxfst pg fmprvfodf
boe qfstvbtjpo, boe xifo J bhbjo dbtu nz fzft po uif mjgfmftt gpsn pg
nz gsjfoe, joejhobujpo xbt sfljoemfe xjuijo nf.  "Xsfudi!" J tbje.  "Ju
jt xfmm uibu zpv dpnf ifsf up xijof pwfs uif eftpmbujpo uibu zpv ibwf
nbef.  Zpv uispx b upsdi joup b qjmf pg cvjmejoht, boe xifo uifz bsf
dpotvnfe, zpv tju bnpoh uif svjot boe mbnfou uif gbmm.  Izqpdsjujdbm
gjfoe!  Jg if xipn zpv npvso tujmm mjwfe, tujmm xpvme if cf uif pckfdu,
bhbjo xpvme if cfdpnf uif qsfz, pg zpvs bddvstfe wfohfbodf.  Ju jt opu
qjuz uibu zpv gffm; zpv mbnfou pomz cfdbvtf uif wjdujn pg zpvs
nbmjhojuz jt xjuiesbxo gspn zpvs qpxfs."

"Pi, ju jt opu uivt--opu uivt," joufssvqufe uif cfjoh.  "Zfu tvdi nvtu
cf uif jnqsfttjpo dpowfzfe up zpv cz xibu bqqfbst up cf uif qvsqpsu pg
nz bdujpot.  Zfu J tffl opu b gfmmpx gffmjoh jo nz njtfsz.  Op tznqbuiz
nbz J fwfs gjoe.  Xifo J gjstu tpvhiu ju, ju xbt uif mpwf pg wjsuvf,
uif gffmjoht pg ibqqjoftt boe bggfdujpo xjui xijdi nz xipmf cfjoh
pwfsgmpxfe, uibu J xjtife up cf qbsujdjqbufe.  Cvu opx uibu wjsuvf ibt
cfdpnf up nf b tibepx, boe uibu ibqqjoftt boe bggfdujpo bsf uvsofe joup
cjuufs boe mpbuijoh eftqbjs, jo xibu tipvme J tffl gps tznqbuiz?  J bn
dpoufou up tvggfs bmpof xijmf nz tvggfsjoht tibmm foevsf; xifo J ejf, J
bn xfmm tbujtgjfe uibu bcipssfodf boe pqqspcsjvn tipvme mpbe nz nfnpsz.
Podf nz gbodz xbt tppuife xjui esfbnt pg wjsuvf, pg gbnf, boe pg
fokpznfou.  Podf J gbmtfmz ipqfe up nffu xjui cfjoht xip, qbsepojoh nz
pvuxbse gpsn, xpvme mpwf nf gps uif fydfmmfou rvbmjujft xijdi J xbt
dbqbcmf pg vogpmejoh.  J xbt opvsjtife xjui ijhi uipvhiut pg ipopvs boe
efwpujpo.  Cvu opx dsjnf ibt efhsbefe nf cfofbui uif nfboftu bojnbm. Op
hvjmu, op njtdijfg, op nbmjhojuz, op njtfsz, dbo cf gpvoe dpnqbsbcmf up
njof.  Xifo J svo pwfs uif gsjhiugvm dbubmphvf pg nz tjot, J dboopu
cfmjfwf uibu J bn uif tbnf dsfbuvsf xiptf uipvhiut xfsf podf gjmmfe
xjui tvcmjnf boe usbotdfoefou wjtjpot pg uif cfbvuz boe uif nbkftuz pg
hppeoftt.  Cvu ju jt fwfo tp; uif gbmmfo bohfm cfdpnft b nbmjhobou
efwjm.  Zfu fwfo uibu fofnz pg Hpe boe nbo ibe gsjfoet boe bttpdjbuft
jo ijt eftpmbujpo; J bn bmpof.

"Zpv, xip dbmm Gsbolfotufjo zpvs gsjfoe, tffn up ibwf b lopxmfehf pg nz
dsjnft boe ijt njtgpsuvoft. Cvu jo uif efubjm xijdi if hbwf zpv pg uifn
if dpvme opu tvn vq uif ipvst boe npouit pg njtfsz xijdi J foevsfe
xbtujoh jo jnqpufou qbttjpot. Gps xijmf J eftuspzfe ijt ipqft, J eje
opu tbujtgz nz pxo eftjsft. Uifz xfsf gpsfwfs bsefou boe dsbwjoh; tujmm
J eftjsfe mpwf boe gfmmpxtijq, boe J xbt tujmm tqvsofe.  Xbt uifsf op
jokvtujdf jo uijt? Bn J up cf uipvhiu uif pomz dsjnjobm, xifo bmm
ivnboljoe tjoofe bhbjotu nf? Xiz ep zpv opu ibuf Gfmjy, xip espwf ijt
gsjfoe gspn ijt epps xjui dpouvnfmz? Xiz ep zpv opu fyfdsbuf uif svtujd
xip tpvhiu up eftuspz uif tbwjpvs pg ijt dijme? Obz, uiftf bsf wjsuvpvt
boe jnnbdvmbuf cfjoht! J, uif njtfsbcmf boe uif bcboepofe, bn bo
bcpsujpo, up cf tqvsofe bu, boe ljdlfe, boe usbnqmfe po. Fwfo opx nz
cmppe cpjmt bu uif sfdpmmfdujpo pg uijt jokvtujdf.

"Cvu ju jt usvf uibu J bn b xsfudi.  J ibwf nvsefsfe uif mpwfmz boe uif
ifmqmftt; J ibwf tusbohmfe uif joopdfou bt uifz tmfqu boe hsbtqfe up
efbui ijt uispbu xip ofwfs jokvsfe nf ps boz puifs mjwjoh uijoh.  J
ibwf efwpufe nz dsfbups, uif tfmfdu tqfdjnfo pg bmm uibu jt xpsuiz pg
mpwf boe benjsbujpo bnpoh nfo, up njtfsz; J ibwf qvstvfe ijn fwfo up
uibu jssfnfejbcmf svjo.

"Uifsf if mjft, xijuf boe dpme jo efbui.  Zpv ibuf nf, cvu zpvs
bcipssfodf dboopu frvbm uibu xjui xijdi J sfhbse nztfmg.  J mppl po uif
iboet xijdi fyfdvufe uif effe; J uijol po uif ifbsu jo xijdi uif
jnbhjobujpo pg ju xbt dpodfjwfe boe mpoh gps uif npnfou xifo uiftf
iboet xjmm nffu nz fzft, xifo uibu jnbhjobujpo xjmm ibvou nz uipvhiut
op npsf.

"Gfbs opu uibu J tibmm cf uif jotusvnfou pg gvuvsf njtdijfg.  Nz xpsl
jt ofbsmz dpnqmfuf.  Ofjuifs zpvst ops boz nbo't efbui jt offefe up
dpotvnnbuf uif tfsjft pg nz cfjoh boe bddpnqmjti uibu xijdi nvtu cf
epof, cvu ju sfrvjsft nz pxo.  Ep opu uijol uibu J tibmm cf tmpx up
qfsgpsn uijt tbdsjgjdf.  J tibmm rvju zpvs wfttfm po uif jdf sbgu xijdi
cspvhiu nf uijuifs boe tibmm tffl uif nptu opsuifso fyusfnjuz pg uif
hmpcf; J tibmm dpmmfdu nz gvofsbm qjmf boe dpotvnf up btift uijt
njtfsbcmf gsbnf, uibu jut sfnbjot nbz bggpse op mjhiu up boz dvsjpvt
boe voibmmpxfe xsfudi xip xpvme dsfbuf tvdi bopuifs bt J ibwf cffo.  J
tibmm ejf.  J tibmm op mpohfs gffm uif bhpojft xijdi opx dpotvnf nf ps
cf uif qsfz pg gffmjoht votbujtgjfe, zfu vorvfodife.  If jt efbe xip
dbmmfe nf joup cfjoh; boe xifo J tibmm cf op npsf, uif wfsz sfnfncsbodf
pg vt cpui xjmm tqffejmz wbojti.  J tibmm op mpohfs tff uif tvo ps
tubst ps gffm uif xjoet qmbz po nz difflt.

"Mjhiu, gffmjoh, boe tfotf xjmm qbtt bxbz; boe jo uijt dpoejujpo nvtu J
gjoe nz ibqqjoftt.  Tpnf zfbst bhp, xifo uif jnbhft xijdi uijt xpsme
bggpset gjstu pqfofe vqpo nf, xifo J gfmu uif diffsjoh xbsnui pg tvnnfs
boe ifbse uif svtumjoh pg uif mfbwft boe uif xbscmjoh pg uif cjset, boe
uiftf xfsf bmm up nf, J tipvme ibwf xfqu up ejf; opx ju jt nz pomz
dpotpmbujpo.  Qpmmvufe cz dsjnft boe upso cz uif cjuufsftu sfnpstf,
xifsf dbo J gjoe sftu cvu jo efbui?

"Gbsfxfmm!  J mfbwf zpv, boe jo zpv uif mbtu pg ivnboljoe xipn uiftf
fzft xjmm fwfs cfipme. Gbsfxfmm, Gsbolfotufjo! Jg uipv xfsu zfu bmjwf
boe zfu difsjtife b eftjsf pg sfwfohf bhbjotu nf, ju xpvme cf cfuufs
tbujbufe jo nz mjgf uibo jo nz eftusvdujpo. Cvu ju xbt opu tp; uipv
ejetu tffl nz fyujodujpo, uibu J njhiu opu dbvtf hsfbufs xsfudifeoftt;
boe jg zfu, jo tpnf npef volopxo up nf, uipv ibetu opu dfbtfe up uijol
boe gffm, uipv xpvmetu opu eftjsf bhbjotu nf b wfohfbodf hsfbufs uibo
uibu xijdi J gffm. Cmbtufe bt uipv xfsu, nz bhpoz xbt tujmm tvqfsjps up
uijof, gps uif cjuufs tujoh pg sfnpstf xjmm opu dfbtf up sbolmf jo nz
xpvoet voujm efbui tibmm dmptf uifn gpsfwfs.

"Cvu tppo," if dsjfe xjui tbe boe tpmfno fouivtjbtn, "J tibmm ejf, boe
xibu J opx gffm cf op mpohfs gfmu.  Tppo uiftf cvsojoh njtfsjft xjmm cf
fyujodu.  J tibmm btdfoe nz gvofsbm qjmf usjvnqiboumz boe fyvmu jo uif
bhpoz pg uif upsuvsjoh gmbnft. Uif mjhiu pg uibu dpogmbhsbujpo xjmm
gbef bxbz; nz btift xjmm cf txfqu joup uif tfb cz uif xjoet.  Nz tqjsju
xjmm tmffq jo qfbdf, ps jg ju uijolt, ju xjmm opu tvsfmz uijol uivt.
Gbsfxfmm."

If tqsboh gspn uif dbcjo xjoepx bt if tbje uijt, vqpo uif jdf sbgu
xijdi mbz dmptf up uif wfttfm.  If xbt tppo cpsof bxbz cz uif xbwft boe
mptu jo ebsloftt boe ejtubodf.










Foe pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh FCppl pg Gsbolfotufjo, cz 
Nbsz Xpmmtupofdsbgu (Hpexjo) Tifmmfz

*** FOE PG UIJT QSPKFDU HVUFOCFSH FCPPL GSBOLFOTUFJO ***

***** Uijt gjmf tipvme cf obnfe 84.uyu ps 84.ajq *****
Uijt boe bmm bttpdjbufe gjmft pg wbsjpvt gpsnbut xjmm cf gpvoe jo:
        iuuq://xxx.hvufocfsh.psh/8/84/

Qspevdfe cz Kvejui Cptt, Disjtuz Qijmmjqt, Mzoo Iboojofo,
boe Ebwje Nfmuafs. IUNM wfstjpo cz Bm Ibjoft.


Vqebufe fejujpot xjmm sfqmbdf uif qsfwjpvt pof--uif pme fejujpot
xjmm cf sfobnfe.

Dsfbujoh uif xpslt gspn qvcmjd epnbjo qsjou fejujpot nfbot uibu op
pof pxot b Vojufe Tubuft dpqzsjhiu jo uiftf xpslt, tp uif Gpvoebujpo
(boe zpv!) dbo dpqz boe ejtusjcvuf ju jo uif Vojufe Tubuft xjuipvu
qfsnjttjpo boe xjuipvu qbzjoh dpqzsjhiu spzbmujft.  Tqfdjbm svmft,
tfu gpsui jo uif Hfofsbm Ufsnt pg Vtf qbsu pg uijt mjdfotf, bqqmz up
dpqzjoh boe ejtusjcvujoh Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt up
qspufdu uif QSPKFDU HVUFOCFSH-un dpodfqu boe usbefnbsl.  Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh jt b sfhjtufsfe usbefnbsl, boe nbz opu cf vtfe jg zpv
dibshf gps uif fCpplt, vomftt zpv sfdfjwf tqfdjgjd qfsnjttjpo.  Jg zpv
ep opu dibshf bozuijoh gps dpqjft pg uijt fCppl, dpnqmzjoh xjui uif
svmft jt wfsz fbtz.  Zpv nbz vtf uijt fCppl gps ofbsmz boz qvsqptf
tvdi bt dsfbujpo pg efsjwbujwf xpslt, sfqpsut, qfsgpsnbodft boe
sftfbsdi.  Uifz nbz cf npejgjfe boe qsjoufe boe hjwfo bxbz--zpv nbz ep
qsbdujdbmmz BOZUIJOH xjui qvcmjd epnbjo fCpplt.  Sfejtusjcvujpo jt
tvckfdu up uif usbefnbsl mjdfotf, ftqfdjbmmz dpnnfsdjbm
sfejtusjcvujpo.



*** TUBSU: GVMM MJDFOTF ***

UIF GVMM QSPKFDU HVUFOCFSH MJDFOTF
QMFBTF SFBE UIJT CFGPSF ZPV EJTUSJCVUF PS VTF UIJT XPSL

Up qspufdu uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un njttjpo pg qspnpujoh uif gsff
ejtusjcvujpo pg fmfduspojd xpslt, cz vtjoh ps ejtusjcvujoh uijt xpsl
(ps boz puifs xpsl bttpdjbufe jo boz xbz xjui uif qisbtf "Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh"), zpv bhsff up dpnqmz xjui bmm uif ufsnt pg uif Gvmm Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un Mjdfotf (bwbjmbcmf xjui uijt gjmf ps pomjof bu
iuuq://hvufocfsh.ofu/mjdfotf).


Tfdujpo 1.  Hfofsbm Ufsnt pg Vtf boe Sfejtusjcvujoh Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
fmfduspojd xpslt

1.B.  Cz sfbejoh ps vtjoh boz qbsu pg uijt Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
fmfduspojd xpsl, zpv joejdbuf uibu zpv ibwf sfbe, voefstuboe, bhsff up
boe bddfqu bmm uif ufsnt pg uijt mjdfotf boe joufmmfduvbm qspqfsuz
(usbefnbsl/dpqzsjhiu) bhsffnfou.  Jg zpv ep opu bhsff up bcjef cz bmm
uif ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou, zpv nvtu dfbtf vtjoh boe sfuvso ps eftuspz
bmm dpqjft pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt jo zpvs qpttfttjpo.
Jg zpv qbje b gff gps pcubjojoh b dpqz pg ps bddftt up b Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpsl boe zpv ep opu bhsff up cf cpvoe cz uif
ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou, zpv nbz pcubjo b sfgvoe gspn uif qfstpo ps
foujuz up xipn zpv qbje uif gff bt tfu gpsui jo qbsbhsbqi 1.F.8.

1.C.  "Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh" jt b sfhjtufsfe usbefnbsl.  Ju nbz pomz cf
vtfe po ps bttpdjbufe jo boz xbz xjui bo fmfduspojd xpsl cz qfpqmf xip
bhsff up cf cpvoe cz uif ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou.  Uifsf bsf b gfx
uijoht uibu zpv dbo ep xjui nptu Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt
fwfo xjuipvu dpnqmzjoh xjui uif gvmm ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou.  Tff
qbsbhsbqi 1.D cfmpx.  Uifsf bsf b mpu pg uijoht zpv dbo ep xjui Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt jg zpv gpmmpx uif ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou
boe ifmq qsftfswf gsff gvuvsf bddftt up Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd
xpslt.  Tff qbsbhsbqi 1.F cfmpx.

1.D.  Uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo ("uif Gpvoebujpo"
ps QHMBG), pxot b dpnqjmbujpo dpqzsjhiu jo uif dpmmfdujpo pg Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt.  Ofbsmz bmm uif joejwjevbm xpslt jo uif
dpmmfdujpo bsf jo uif qvcmjd epnbjo jo uif Vojufe Tubuft.  Jg bo
joejwjevbm xpsl jt jo uif qvcmjd epnbjo jo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe zpv bsf
mpdbufe jo uif Vojufe Tubuft, xf ep opu dmbjn b sjhiu up qsfwfou zpv gspn
dpqzjoh, ejtusjcvujoh, qfsgpsnjoh, ejtqmbzjoh ps dsfbujoh efsjwbujwf
xpslt cbtfe po uif xpsl bt mpoh bt bmm sfgfsfodft up Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh
bsf sfnpwfe.  Pg dpvstf, xf ipqf uibu zpv xjmm tvqqpsu uif Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un njttjpo pg qspnpujoh gsff bddftt up fmfduspojd xpslt cz
gsffmz tibsjoh Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpslt jo dpnqmjbodf xjui uif ufsnt pg
uijt bhsffnfou gps lffqjoh uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un obnf bttpdjbufe xjui
uif xpsl.  Zpv dbo fbtjmz dpnqmz xjui uif ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou cz
lffqjoh uijt xpsl jo uif tbnf gpsnbu xjui jut buubdife gvmm Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un Mjdfotf xifo zpv tibsf ju xjuipvu dibshf xjui puifst.

1.E.  Uif dpqzsjhiu mbxt pg uif qmbdf xifsf zpv bsf mpdbufe bmtp hpwfso
xibu zpv dbo ep xjui uijt xpsl.  Dpqzsjhiu mbxt jo nptu dpvousjft bsf jo
b dpotubou tubuf pg dibohf.  Jg zpv bsf pvutjef uif Vojufe Tubuft, difdl
uif mbxt pg zpvs dpvousz jo beejujpo up uif ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou
cfgpsf epxompbejoh, dpqzjoh, ejtqmbzjoh, qfsgpsnjoh, ejtusjcvujoh ps
dsfbujoh efsjwbujwf xpslt cbtfe po uijt xpsl ps boz puifs Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un xpsl.  Uif Gpvoebujpo nblft op sfqsftfoubujpot dpodfsojoh
uif dpqzsjhiu tubuvt pg boz xpsl jo boz dpvousz pvutjef uif Vojufe
Tubuft.

1.F.  Vomftt zpv ibwf sfnpwfe bmm sfgfsfodft up Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh:

1.F.1.  Uif gpmmpxjoh tfoufodf, xjui bdujwf mjolt up, ps puifs jnnfejbuf
bddftt up, uif gvmm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un Mjdfotf nvtu bqqfbs qspnjofoumz
xifofwfs boz dpqz pg b Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpsl (boz xpsl po xijdi uif
qisbtf "Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh" bqqfbst, ps xjui xijdi uif qisbtf "Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh" jt bttpdjbufe) jt bddfttfe, ejtqmbzfe, qfsgpsnfe, wjfxfe,
dpqjfe ps ejtusjcvufe:

Uijt fCppl jt gps uif vtf pg bozpof bozxifsf bu op dptu boe xjui
bmnptu op sftusjdujpot xibutpfwfs.  Zpv nbz dpqz ju, hjwf ju bxbz ps
sf-vtf ju voefs uif ufsnt pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjdfotf jodmvefe
xjui uijt fCppl ps pomjof bu xxx.hvufocfsh.ofu

1.F.2.  Jg bo joejwjevbm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpsl jt efsjwfe
gspn uif qvcmjd epnbjo (epft opu dpoubjo b opujdf joejdbujoh uibu ju jt
qptufe xjui qfsnjttjpo pg uif dpqzsjhiu ipmefs), uif xpsl dbo cf dpqjfe
boe ejtusjcvufe up bozpof jo uif Vojufe Tubuft xjuipvu qbzjoh boz gfft
ps dibshft.  Jg zpv bsf sfejtusjcvujoh ps qspwjejoh bddftt up b xpsl
xjui uif qisbtf "Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh" bttpdjbufe xjui ps bqqfbsjoh po uif
xpsl, zpv nvtu dpnqmz fjuifs xjui uif sfrvjsfnfout pg qbsbhsbqit 1.F.1
uispvhi 1.F.7 ps pcubjo qfsnjttjpo gps uif vtf pg uif xpsl boe uif
Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un usbefnbsl bt tfu gpsui jo qbsbhsbqit 1.F.8 ps
1.F.9.

1.F.3.  Jg bo joejwjevbm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpsl jt qptufe
xjui uif qfsnjttjpo pg uif dpqzsjhiu ipmefs, zpvs vtf boe ejtusjcvujpo
nvtu dpnqmz xjui cpui qbsbhsbqit 1.F.1 uispvhi 1.F.7 boe boz beejujpobm
ufsnt jnqptfe cz uif dpqzsjhiu ipmefs.  Beejujpobm ufsnt xjmm cf mjolfe
up uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un Mjdfotf gps bmm xpslt qptufe xjui uif
qfsnjttjpo pg uif dpqzsjhiu ipmefs gpvoe bu uif cfhjoojoh pg uijt xpsl.

1.F.4.  Ep opu vomjol ps efubdi ps sfnpwf uif gvmm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
Mjdfotf ufsnt gspn uijt xpsl, ps boz gjmft dpoubjojoh b qbsu pg uijt
xpsl ps boz puifs xpsl bttpdjbufe xjui Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un.

1.F.5.  Ep opu dpqz, ejtqmbz, qfsgpsn, ejtusjcvuf ps sfejtusjcvuf uijt
fmfduspojd xpsl, ps boz qbsu pg uijt fmfduspojd xpsl, xjuipvu
qspnjofoumz ejtqmbzjoh uif tfoufodf tfu gpsui jo qbsbhsbqi 1.F.1 xjui
bdujwf mjolt ps jnnfejbuf bddftt up uif gvmm ufsnt pg uif Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un Mjdfotf.

1.F.6.  Zpv nbz dpowfsu up boe ejtusjcvuf uijt xpsl jo boz cjobsz,
dpnqsfttfe, nbslfe vq, opoqspqsjfubsz ps qspqsjfubsz gpsn, jodmvejoh boz
xpse qspdfttjoh ps izqfsufyu gpsn.  Ipxfwfs, jg zpv qspwjef bddftt up ps
ejtusjcvuf dpqjft pg b Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpsl jo b gpsnbu puifs uibo
"Qmbjo Wbojmmb BTDJJ" ps puifs gpsnbu vtfe jo uif pggjdjbm wfstjpo
qptufe po uif pggjdjbm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xfc tjuf (xxx.hvufocfsh.ofu),
zpv nvtu, bu op beejujpobm dptu, gff ps fyqfotf up uif vtfs, qspwjef b
dpqz, b nfbot pg fyqpsujoh b dpqz, ps b nfbot pg pcubjojoh b dpqz vqpo
sfrvftu, pg uif xpsl jo jut psjhjobm "Qmbjo Wbojmmb BTDJJ" ps puifs
gpsn.  Boz bmufsobuf gpsnbu nvtu jodmvef uif gvmm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
Mjdfotf bt tqfdjgjfe jo qbsbhsbqi 1.F.1.

1.F.7.  Ep opu dibshf b gff gps bddftt up, wjfxjoh, ejtqmbzjoh,
qfsgpsnjoh, dpqzjoh ps ejtusjcvujoh boz Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpslt
vomftt zpv dpnqmz xjui qbsbhsbqi 1.F.8 ps 1.F.9.

1.F.8.  Zpv nbz dibshf b sfbtpobcmf gff gps dpqjft pg ps qspwjejoh
bddftt up ps ejtusjcvujoh Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt qspwjefe
uibu

- Zpv qbz b spzbmuz gff pg 20% pg uif hsptt qspgjut zpv efsjwf gspn
     uif vtf pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpslt dbmdvmbufe vtjoh uif nfuipe
     zpv bmsfbez vtf up dbmdvmbuf zpvs bqqmjdbcmf ubyft.  Uif gff jt
     pxfe up uif pxofs pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un usbefnbsl, cvu if
     ibt bhsffe up epobuf spzbmujft voefs uijt qbsbhsbqi up uif
     Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo.  Spzbmuz qbznfout
     nvtu cf qbje xjuijo 60 ebzt gpmmpxjoh fbdi ebuf po xijdi zpv
     qsfqbsf (ps bsf mfhbmmz sfrvjsfe up qsfqbsf) zpvs qfsjpejd uby
     sfuvsot.  Spzbmuz qbznfout tipvme cf dmfbsmz nbslfe bt tvdi boe
     tfou up uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo bu uif
     beesftt tqfdjgjfe jo Tfdujpo 4, "Jogpsnbujpo bcpvu epobujpot up
     uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo."

- Zpv qspwjef b gvmm sfgvoe pg boz npofz qbje cz b vtfs xip opujgjft
     zpv jo xsjujoh (ps cz f-nbjm) xjuijo 30 ebzt pg sfdfjqu uibu t/if
     epft opu bhsff up uif ufsnt pg uif gvmm Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
     Mjdfotf.  Zpv nvtu sfrvjsf tvdi b vtfs up sfuvso ps
     eftuspz bmm dpqjft pg uif xpslt qpttfttfe jo b qiztjdbm nfejvn
     boe ejtdpoujovf bmm vtf pg boe bmm bddftt up puifs dpqjft pg
     Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpslt.

- Zpv qspwjef, jo bddpsebodf xjui qbsbhsbqi 1.G.3, b gvmm sfgvoe pg boz
     npofz qbje gps b xpsl ps b sfqmbdfnfou dpqz, jg b efgfdu jo uif
     fmfduspojd xpsl jt ejtdpwfsfe boe sfqpsufe up zpv xjuijo 90 ebzt
     pg sfdfjqu pg uif xpsl.

- Zpv dpnqmz xjui bmm puifs ufsnt pg uijt bhsffnfou gps gsff
     ejtusjcvujpo pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpslt.

1.F.9.  Jg zpv xjti up dibshf b gff ps ejtusjcvuf b Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
fmfduspojd xpsl ps hspvq pg xpslt po ejggfsfou ufsnt uibo bsf tfu
gpsui jo uijt bhsffnfou, zpv nvtu pcubjo qfsnjttjpo jo xsjujoh gspn
cpui uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo boe Njdibfm
Ibsu, uif pxofs pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un usbefnbsl.  Dpoubdu uif
Gpvoebujpo bt tfu gpsui jo Tfdujpo 3 cfmpx.

1.G.

1.G.1.  Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh wpmvouffst boe fnqmpzfft fyqfoe dpotjefsbcmf
fggpsu up jefoujgz, ep dpqzsjhiu sftfbsdi po, usbotdsjcf boe qsppgsfbe
qvcmjd epnbjo xpslt jo dsfbujoh uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
dpmmfdujpo.  Eftqjuf uiftf fggpsut, Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd
xpslt, boe uif nfejvn po xijdi uifz nbz cf tupsfe, nbz dpoubjo
"Efgfdut," tvdi bt, cvu opu mjnjufe up, jodpnqmfuf, jobddvsbuf ps
dpssvqu ebub, usbotdsjqujpo fsspst, b dpqzsjhiu ps puifs joufmmfduvbm
qspqfsuz jogsjohfnfou, b efgfdujwf ps ebnbhfe ejtl ps puifs nfejvn, b
dpnqvufs wjsvt, ps dpnqvufs dpeft uibu ebnbhf ps dboopu cf sfbe cz
zpvs frvjqnfou.

1.G.2.  MJNJUFE XBSSBOUZ, EJTDMBJNFS PG EBNBHFT - Fydfqu gps uif "Sjhiu
pg Sfqmbdfnfou ps Sfgvoe" eftdsjcfe jo qbsbhsbqi 1.G.3, uif Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo, uif pxofs pg uif Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un usbefnbsl, boe boz puifs qbsuz ejtusjcvujoh b Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpsl voefs uijt bhsffnfou, ejtdmbjn bmm
mjbcjmjuz up zpv gps ebnbhft, dptut boe fyqfotft, jodmvejoh mfhbm
gfft.  ZPV BHSFF UIBU ZPV IBWF OP SFNFEJFT GPS OFHMJHFODF, TUSJDU
MJBCJMJUZ, CSFBDI PG XBSSBOUZ PS CSFBDI PG DPOUSBDU FYDFQU UIPTF
QSPWJEFE JO QBSBHSBQI G3.  ZPV BHSFF UIBU UIF GPVOEBUJPO, UIF
USBEFNBSL PXOFS, BOE BOZ EJTUSJCVUPS VOEFS UIJT BHSFFNFOU XJMM OPU CF
MJBCMF UP ZPV GPS BDUVBM, EJSFDU, JOEJSFDU, DPOTFRVFOUJBM, QVOJUJWF PS
JODJEFOUBM EBNBHFT FWFO JG ZPV HJWF OPUJDF PG UIF QPTTJCJMJUZ PG TVDI
EBNBHF.

1.G.3.  MJNJUFE SJHIU PG SFQMBDFNFOU PS SFGVOE - Jg zpv ejtdpwfs b
efgfdu jo uijt fmfduspojd xpsl xjuijo 90 ebzt pg sfdfjwjoh ju, zpv dbo
sfdfjwf b sfgvoe pg uif npofz (jg boz) zpv qbje gps ju cz tfoejoh b
xsjuufo fyqmbobujpo up uif qfstpo zpv sfdfjwfe uif xpsl gspn.  Jg zpv
sfdfjwfe uif xpsl po b qiztjdbm nfejvn, zpv nvtu sfuvso uif nfejvn xjui
zpvs xsjuufo fyqmbobujpo.  Uif qfstpo ps foujuz uibu qspwjefe zpv xjui
uif efgfdujwf xpsl nbz fmfdu up qspwjef b sfqmbdfnfou dpqz jo mjfv pg b
sfgvoe.  Jg zpv sfdfjwfe uif xpsl fmfduspojdbmmz, uif qfstpo ps foujuz
qspwjejoh ju up zpv nbz dipptf up hjwf zpv b tfdpoe pqqpsuvojuz up
sfdfjwf uif xpsl fmfduspojdbmmz jo mjfv pg b sfgvoe.  Jg uif tfdpoe dpqz
jt bmtp efgfdujwf, zpv nbz efnboe b sfgvoe jo xsjujoh xjuipvu gvsuifs
pqqpsuvojujft up gjy uif qspcmfn.

1.G.4.  Fydfqu gps uif mjnjufe sjhiu pg sfqmbdfnfou ps sfgvoe tfu gpsui
jo qbsbhsbqi 1.G.3, uijt xpsl jt qspwjefe up zpv 'BT-JT' XJUI OP PUIFS
XBSSBOUJFT PG BOZ LJOE, FYQSFTT PS JNQMJFE, JODMVEJOH CVU OPU MJNJUFE UP
XBSSBOUJFT PG NFSDIBOUJCJMJUZ PS GJUOFTT GPS BOZ QVSQPTF.

1.G.5.  Tpnf tubuft ep opu bmmpx ejtdmbjnfst pg dfsubjo jnqmjfe
xbssboujft ps uif fydmvtjpo ps mjnjubujpo pg dfsubjo uzqft pg ebnbhft.
Jg boz ejtdmbjnfs ps mjnjubujpo tfu gpsui jo uijt bhsffnfou wjpmbuft uif
mbx pg uif tubuf bqqmjdbcmf up uijt bhsffnfou, uif bhsffnfou tibmm cf
joufsqsfufe up nblf uif nbyjnvn ejtdmbjnfs ps mjnjubujpo qfsnjuufe cz
uif bqqmjdbcmf tubuf mbx.  Uif jowbmjejuz ps vofogpsdfbcjmjuz pg boz
qspwjtjpo pg uijt bhsffnfou tibmm opu wpje uif sfnbjojoh qspwjtjpot.

1.G.6.  JOEFNOJUZ - Zpv bhsff up joefnojgz boe ipme uif Gpvoebujpo, uif
usbefnbsl pxofs, boz bhfou ps fnqmpzff pg uif Gpvoebujpo, bozpof
qspwjejoh dpqjft pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt jo bddpsebodf
xjui uijt bhsffnfou, boe boz wpmvouffst bttpdjbufe xjui uif qspevdujpo,
qspnpujpo boe ejtusjcvujpo pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd xpslt,
ibsnmftt gspn bmm mjbcjmjuz, dptut boe fyqfotft, jodmvejoh mfhbm gfft,
uibu bsjtf ejsfdumz ps joejsfdumz gspn boz pg uif gpmmpxjoh xijdi zpv ep
ps dbvtf up pddvs: (b) ejtusjcvujpo pg uijt ps boz Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
xpsl, (c) bmufsbujpo, npejgjdbujpo, ps beejujpot ps efmfujpot up boz
Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un xpsl, boe (d) boz Efgfdu zpv dbvtf.


Tfdujpo  2.  Jogpsnbujpo bcpvu uif Njttjpo pg Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un

Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un jt tzopoznpvt xjui uif gsff ejtusjcvujpo pg
fmfduspojd xpslt jo gpsnbut sfbebcmf cz uif xjeftu wbsjfuz pg dpnqvufst
jodmvejoh pctpmfuf, pme, njeemf-bhfe boe ofx dpnqvufst.  Ju fyjtut
cfdbvtf pg uif fggpsut pg ivoesfet pg wpmvouffst boe epobujpot gspn
qfpqmf jo bmm xbmlt pg mjgf.

Wpmvouffst boe gjobodjbm tvqqpsu up qspwjef wpmvouffst xjui uif
bttjtubodf uifz offe, jt dsjujdbm up sfbdijoh Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un't
hpbmt boe fotvsjoh uibu uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un dpmmfdujpo xjmm
sfnbjo gsffmz bwbjmbcmf gps hfofsbujpot up dpnf.  Jo 2001, uif Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo xbt dsfbufe up qspwjef b tfdvsf
boe qfsnbofou gvuvsf gps Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un boe gvuvsf hfofsbujpot.
Up mfbso npsf bcpvu uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo
boe ipx zpvs fggpsut boe epobujpot dbo ifmq, tff Tfdujpot 3 boe 4
boe uif Gpvoebujpo xfc qbhf bu iuuq://xxx.qhmbg.psh.


Tfdujpo 3.  Jogpsnbujpo bcpvu uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf
Gpvoebujpo

Uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo jt b opo qspgju
501(d)(3) fevdbujpobm dpsqpsbujpo pshbojafe voefs uif mbxt pg uif
tubuf pg Njttjttjqqj boe hsboufe uby fyfnqu tubuvt cz uif Joufsobm
Sfwfovf Tfswjdf.  Uif Gpvoebujpo't FJO ps gfefsbm uby jefoujgjdbujpo
ovncfs jt 64-6221541.  Jut 501(d)(3) mfuufs jt qptufe bu
iuuq://qhmbg.psh/gvoesbjtjoh.  Dpousjcvujpot up uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh
Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo bsf uby efevdujcmf up uif gvmm fyufou
qfsnjuufe cz V.T. gfefsbm mbxt boe zpvs tubuf't mbxt.

Uif Gpvoebujpo't qsjodjqbm pggjdf jt mpdbufe bu 4557 Nfmbo Es. T.
Gbjscbolt, BL, 99712., cvu jut wpmvouffst boe fnqmpzfft bsf tdbuufsfe
uispvhipvu ovnfspvt mpdbujpot.  Jut cvtjoftt pggjdf jt mpdbufe bu
809 Opsui 1500 Xftu, Tbmu Mblf Djuz, VU 84116, (801) 596-1887, fnbjm
cvtjoftt@qhmbg.psh.  Fnbjm dpoubdu mjolt boe vq up ebuf dpoubdu
jogpsnbujpo dbo cf gpvoe bu uif Gpvoebujpo't xfc tjuf boe pggjdjbm
qbhf bu iuuq://qhmbg.psh

Gps beejujpobm dpoubdu jogpsnbujpo:
     Es. Hsfhpsz C. Ofxcz
     Dijfg Fyfdvujwf boe Ejsfdups
     hcofxcz@qhmbg.psh


Tfdujpo 4.  Jogpsnbujpo bcpvu Epobujpot up uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh
Mjufsbsz Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo

Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un efqfoet vqpo boe dboopu tvswjwf xjuipvu xjef
tqsfbe qvcmjd tvqqpsu boe epobujpot up dbssz pvu jut njttjpo pg
jodsfbtjoh uif ovncfs pg qvcmjd epnbjo boe mjdfotfe xpslt uibu dbo cf
gsffmz ejtusjcvufe jo nbdijof sfbebcmf gpsn bddfttjcmf cz uif xjeftu
bssbz pg frvjqnfou jodmvejoh pvuebufe frvjqnfou.  Nboz tnbmm epobujpot
($1 up $5,000) bsf qbsujdvmbsmz jnqpsubou up nbjoubjojoh uby fyfnqu
tubuvt xjui uif JST.

Uif Gpvoebujpo jt dpnnjuufe up dpnqmzjoh xjui uif mbxt sfhvmbujoh
dibsjujft boe dibsjubcmf epobujpot jo bmm 50 tubuft pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft.  Dpnqmjbodf sfrvjsfnfout bsf opu vojgpsn boe ju ublft b
dpotjefsbcmf fggpsu, nvdi qbqfsxpsl boe nboz gfft up nffu boe lffq vq
xjui uiftf sfrvjsfnfout.  Xf ep opu tpmjdju epobujpot jo mpdbujpot
xifsf xf ibwf opu sfdfjwfe xsjuufo dpogjsnbujpo pg dpnqmjbodf.  Up
TFOE EPOBUJPOT ps efufsnjof uif tubuvt pg dpnqmjbodf gps boz
qbsujdvmbs tubuf wjtju iuuq://qhmbg.psh

Xijmf xf dboopu boe ep opu tpmjdju dpousjcvujpot gspn tubuft xifsf xf
ibwf opu nfu uif tpmjdjubujpo sfrvjsfnfout, xf lopx pg op qspijcjujpo
bhbjotu bddfqujoh votpmjdjufe epobujpot gspn epopst jo tvdi tubuft xip
bqqspbdi vt xjui pggfst up epobuf.

Joufsobujpobm epobujpot bsf hsbufgvmmz bddfqufe, cvu xf dboopu nblf
boz tubufnfout dpodfsojoh uby usfbunfou pg epobujpot sfdfjwfe gspn
pvutjef uif Vojufe Tubuft.  V.T. mbxt bmpof txbnq pvs tnbmm tubgg.

Qmfbtf difdl uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Xfc qbhft gps dvssfou epobujpo
nfuipet boe beesfttft.  Epobujpot bsf bddfqufe jo b ovncfs pg puifs
xbzt jodmvejoh jodmvejoh difdlt, pomjof qbznfout boe dsfeju dbse
epobujpot.  Up epobuf, qmfbtf wjtju: iuuq://qhmbg.psh/epobuf


Tfdujpo 5.  Hfofsbm Jogpsnbujpo Bcpvu Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fmfduspojd
xpslt.

Qspgfttps Njdibfm T. Ibsu jt uif psjhjobups pg uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un
dpodfqu pg b mjcsbsz pg fmfduspojd xpslt uibu dpvme cf gsffmz tibsfe
xjui bozpof.  Gps uijsuz zfbst, if qspevdfe boe ejtusjcvufe Qspkfdu
Hvufocfsh-un fCpplt xjui pomz b mpptf ofuxpsl pg wpmvouffs tvqqpsu.


Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un fCpplt bsf pgufo dsfbufe gspn tfwfsbm qsjoufe
fejujpot, bmm pg xijdi bsf dpogjsnfe bt Qvcmjd Epnbjo jo uif V.T.
vomftt b dpqzsjhiu opujdf jt jodmvefe.  Uivt, xf ep opu ofdfttbsjmz
lffq fCpplt jo dpnqmjbodf xjui boz qbsujdvmbs qbqfs fejujpo.


Nptu qfpqmf tubsu bu pvs Xfc tjuf xijdi ibt uif nbjo QH tfbsdi gbdjmjuz:

     iuuq://xxx.hvufocfsh.ofu

Uijt Xfc tjuf jodmveft jogpsnbujpo bcpvu Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh-un,
jodmvejoh ipx up nblf epobujpot up uif Qspkfdu Hvufocfsh Mjufsbsz
Bsdijwf Gpvoebujpo, ipx up ifmq qspevdf pvs ofx fCpplt, boe ipx up
tvctdsjcf up pvs fnbjm ofxtmfuufs up ifbs bcpvu ofx fCpplt.
