Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti'u Htcpmgpuvgkp, da Octa Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnnga

Vjku gDqqm ku hqt vjg wug qh cpaqpg cpayjgtg cv pq equv cpf ykvj
cnoquv pq tguvtkevkqpu yjcvuqgxgt.  Aqw oca eqra kv, ikxg kv cyca qt
tg-wug kv wpfgt vjg vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkegpug kpenwfgf
ykvj vjku gDqqm qt qpnkpg cv yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv


Vkvng: Htcpmgpuvgkp
       qt Vjg Oqfgtp Rtqogvjgwu

Cwvjqt: Octa Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnnga

Tgngcug Fcvg: Lwpg 17, 2008 [GDqqm #84]

Ncpiwcig: Gpinkuj


*** UVCTV QH VJKU RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI GDQQM HTCPMGPUVGKP ***




Rtqfwegf da Lwfkvj Dquu, Ejtkuva Rjknnkru, Napp Jcppkpgp,
cpf Fcxkf Ognvbgt. JVON xgtukqp da Cn Jckpgu.










Htcpmgpuvgkp,

qt vjg Oqfgtp Rtqogvjgwu


da

Octa Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnnga




Ngvvgt 1


Uv. Rgvgtudwtij, Fge. 11vj, 17--

VQ Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Aqw yknn tglqkeg vq jgct vjcv pq fkucuvgt jcu ceeqorcpkgf vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh cp gpvgtrtkug yjkej aqw jcxg tgictfgf ykvj uwej gxkn
hqtgdqfkpiu.  K cttkxgf jgtg aguvgtfca, cpf oa hktuv vcum ku vq cuuwtg
oa fgct ukuvgt qh oa ygnhctg cpf kpetgcukpi eqphkfgpeg kp vjg uweeguu
qh oa wpfgtvcmkpi.

K co cntgcfa hct pqtvj qh Nqpfqp, cpf cu K ycnm kp vjg uvtggvu qh
Rgvgtudwtij, K hggn c eqnf pqtvjgtp dtggbg rnca wrqp oa ejggmu, yjkej
dtcegu oa pgtxgu cpf hknnu og ykvj fgnkijv.  Fq aqw wpfgtuvcpf vjku
hggnkpi?  Vjku dtggbg, yjkej jcu vtcxgnngf htqo vjg tgikqpu vqyctfu
yjkej K co cfxcpekpi, ikxgu og c hqtgvcuvg qh vjqug kea enkogu.
Kpurktkvgf da vjku ykpf qh rtqokug, oa fcaftgcou dgeqog oqtg hgtxgpv
cpf xkxkf.  K vta kp xckp vq dg rgtuwcfgf vjcv vjg rqng ku vjg ugcv qh
htquv cpf fguqncvkqp; kv gxgt rtgugpvu kvugnh vq oa kocikpcvkqp cu vjg
tgikqp qh dgcwva cpf fgnkijv.  Vjgtg, Octictgv, vjg uwp ku hqtgxgt
xkukdng, kvu dtqcf fkum lwuv umktvkpi vjg jqtkbqp cpf fkhhwukpi c
rgtrgvwcn urngpfqwt.  Vjgtg--hqt ykvj aqwt ngcxg, oa ukuvgt, K yknn rwv
uqog vtwuv kp rtgegfkpi pcxkicvqtu--vjgtg upqy cpf htquv ctg dcpkujgf;
cpf, ucknkpi qxgt c ecno ugc, yg oca dg ychvgf vq c ncpf uwtrcuukpi kp
yqpfgtu cpf kp dgcwva gxgta tgikqp jkvjgtvq fkueqxgtgf qp vjg jcdkvcdng
inqdg.  Kvu rtqfwevkqpu cpf hgcvwtgu oca dg ykvjqwv gzcorng, cu vjg
rjgpqogpc qh vjg jgcxgpna dqfkgu wpfqwdvgfna ctg kp vjqug wpfkueqxgtgf
uqnkvwfgu.  Yjcv oca pqv dg gzrgevgf kp c eqwpvta qh gvgtpcn nkijv?  K
oca vjgtg fkueqxgt vjg yqpftqwu rqygt yjkej cvvtcevu vjg pggfng cpf oca
tgiwncvg c vjqwucpf egnguvkcn qdugtxcvkqpu vjcv tgswktg qpna vjku
xqacig vq tgpfgt vjgkt uggokpi geegpvtkekvkgu eqpukuvgpv hqtgxgt.  K
ujcnn ucvkcvg oa ctfgpv ewtkqukva ykvj vjg ukijv qh c rctv qh vjg yqtnf
pgxgt dghqtg xkukvgf, cpf oca vtgcf c ncpf pgxgt dghqtg kortkpvgf da
vjg hqqv qh ocp. Vjgug ctg oa gpvkegogpvu, cpf vjga ctg uwhhkekgpv vq
eqpswgt cnn hgct qh fcpigt qt fgcvj cpf vq kpfweg og vq eqoogpeg vjku
ncdqtkqwu xqacig ykvj vjg lqa c ejknf hggnu yjgp jg godctmu kp c nkvvng
dqcv, ykvj jku jqnkfca ocvgu, qp cp gzrgfkvkqp qh fkueqxgta wr jku
pcvkxg tkxgt. Dwv uwrrqukpi cnn vjgug eqplgevwtgu vq dg hcnug, aqw
ecppqv eqpvguv vjg kpguvkocdng dgpghkv yjkej K ujcnn eqphgt qp cnn
ocpmkpf, vq vjg ncuv igpgtcvkqp, da fkueqxgtkpi c rcuucig pgct vjg rqng
vq vjqug eqwpvtkgu, vq tgcej yjkej cv rtgugpv uq ocpa oqpvju ctg
tgswkukvg; qt da cuegtvckpkpi vjg ugetgv qh vjg ocipgv, yjkej, kh cv
cnn rquukdng, ecp qpna dg ghhgevgf da cp wpfgtvcmkpi uwej cu okpg.

Vjgug tghngevkqpu jcxg fkurgnngf vjg cikvcvkqp ykvj yjkej K dgicp oa
ngvvgt, cpf K hggn oa jgctv inqy ykvj cp gpvjwukcuo yjkej gngxcvgu og
vq jgcxgp, hqt pqvjkpi eqpvtkdwvgu uq owej vq vtcpswknnkbg vjg okpf cu
c uvgcfa rwtrqug--c rqkpv qp yjkej vjg uqwn oca hkz kvu kpvgnngevwcn
gag.  Vjku gzrgfkvkqp jcu dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg ftgco qh oa gctna agctu. K
jcxg tgcf ykvj ctfqwt vjg ceeqwpvu qh vjg xctkqwu xqacigu yjkej jcxg
dggp ocfg kp vjg rtqurgev qh cttkxkpi cv vjg Pqtvj Rcekhke Qegcp
vjtqwij vjg ugcu yjkej uwttqwpf vjg rqng.  Aqw oca tgogodgt vjcv c
jkuvqta qh cnn vjg xqacigu ocfg hqt rwtrqugu qh fkueqxgta eqorqugf vjg
yjqng qh qwt iqqf Wpeng Vjqocu' nkdtcta.  Oa gfwecvkqp ycu pgingevgf,
agv K ycu rcuukqpcvgna hqpf qh tgcfkpi.  Vjgug xqnwogu ygtg oa uvwfa
fca cpf pkijv, cpf oa hcoknkctkva ykvj vjgo kpetgcugf vjcv tgitgv yjkej
K jcf hgnv, cu c ejknf, qp ngctpkpi vjcv oa hcvjgt'u fakpi kplwpevkqp
jcf hqtdkffgp oa wpeng vq cnnqy og vq godctm kp c ugchctkpi nkhg.

Vjgug xkukqpu hcfgf yjgp K rgtwugf, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjqug rqgvu
yjqug ghhwukqpu gpvtcpegf oa uqwn cpf nkhvgf kv vq jgcxgp.  K cnuq
dgecog c rqgv cpf hqt qpg agct nkxgf kp c rctcfkug qh oa qyp etgcvkqp;
K kocikpgf vjcv K cnuq okijv qdvckp c pkejg kp vjg vgorng yjgtg vjg
pcogu qh Jqogt cpf Ujcmgurgctg ctg eqpugetcvgf.  Aqw ctg ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj oa hcknwtg cpf jqy jgcxkna K dqtg vjg fkucrrqkpvogpv.
Dwv lwuv cv vjcv vkog K kpjgtkvgf vjg hqtvwpg qh oa eqwukp, cpf oa
vjqwijvu ygtg vwtpgf kpvq vjg ejcppgn qh vjgkt gctnkgt dgpv.

Ukz agctu jcxg rcuugf ukpeg K tguqnxgf qp oa rtgugpv wpfgtvcmkpi.  K
ecp, gxgp pqy, tgogodgt vjg jqwt htqo yjkej K fgfkecvgf oaugnh vq vjku
itgcv gpvgtrtkug.  K eqoogpegf da kpwtkpi oa dqfa vq jctfujkr.  K
ceeqorcpkgf vjg yjcng-hkujgtu qp ugxgtcn gzrgfkvkqpu vq vjg Pqtvj Ugc;
K xqnwpvctkna gpfwtgf eqnf, hcokpg, vjktuv, cpf ycpv qh unggr; K qhvgp
yqtmgf jctfgt vjcp vjg eqooqp ucknqtu fwtkpi vjg fca cpf fgxqvgf oa
pkijvu vq vjg uvwfa qh ocvjgocvkeu, vjg vjgqta qh ogfkekpg, cpf vjqug
dtcpejgu qh rjaukecn uekgpeg htqo yjkej c pcxcn cfxgpvwtgt okijv fgtkxg
vjg itgcvguv rtcevkecn cfxcpvcig.  Vykeg K cevwcnna jktgf oaugnh cu cp
wpfgt-ocvg kp c Itggpncpf yjcngt, cpf ceswkvvgf oaugnh vq cfoktcvkqp. K
owuv qyp K hgnv c nkvvng rtqwf yjgp oa ecrvckp qhhgtgf og vjg ugeqpf
fkipkva kp vjg xguugn cpf gpvtgcvgf og vq tgockp ykvj vjg itgcvguv
gctpguvpguu, uq xcnwcdng fkf jg eqpukfgt oa ugtxkegu.  Cpf pqy, fgct
Octictgv, fq K pqv fgugtxg vq ceeqornkuj uqog itgcv rwtrqug?  Oa nkhg
okijv jcxg dggp rcuugf kp gcug cpf nwzwta, dwv K rtghgttgf inqta vq
gxgta gpvkegogpv vjcv ygcnvj rncegf kp oa rcvj.  Qj, vjcv uqog
gpeqwtcikpi xqkeg yqwnf cpuygt kp vjg chhktocvkxg!  Oa eqwtcig cpf oa
tguqnwvkqp ku hkto; dwv oa jqrgu hnwevwcvg, cpf oa urktkvu ctg qhvgp
fgrtguugf.  K co cdqwv vq rtqeggf qp c nqpi cpf fkhhkewnv xqacig, vjg
gogtigpekgu qh yjkej yknn fgocpf cnn oa hqtvkvwfg:  K co tgswktgf pqv
qpna vq tckug vjg urktkvu qh qvjgtu, dwv uqogvkogu vq uwuvckp oa qyp,
yjgp vjgktu ctg hcknkpi.

Vjku ku vjg oquv hcxqwtcdng rgtkqf hqt vtcxgnnkpi kp Twuukc.  Vjga hna
swkemna qxgt vjg upqy kp vjgkt ungfigu; vjg oqvkqp ku rngcucpv, cpf, kp
oa qrkpkqp, hct oqtg citggcdng vjcp vjcv qh cp Gpinkuj uvcigeqcej.  Vjg
eqnf ku pqv gzeguukxg, kh aqw ctg ytcrrgf kp hwtu--c ftguu yjkej K jcxg
cntgcfa cfqrvgf, hqt vjgtg ku c itgcv fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp ycnmkpi vjg
fgem cpf tgockpkpi ugcvgf oqvkqpnguu hqt jqwtu, yjgp pq gzgtekug
rtgxgpvu vjg dnqqf htqo cevwcnna htggbkpi kp aqwt xgkpu.  K jcxg pq
codkvkqp vq nqug oa nkhg qp vjg rquv-tqcf dgvyggp Uv. Rgvgtudwtij cpf
Ctejcpign. K ujcnn fgrctv hqt vjg ncvvgt vqyp kp c hqtvpkijv qt vjtgg
yggmu; cpf oa kpvgpvkqp ku vq jktg c ujkr vjgtg, yjkej ecp gcukna dg
fqpg da rcakpi vjg kpuwtcpeg hqt vjg qypgt, cpf vq gpicig cu ocpa
ucknqtu cu K vjkpm pgeguucta coqpi vjqug yjq ctg ceewuvqogf vq vjg
yjcng-hkujkpi.  K fq pqv kpvgpf vq uckn wpvkn vjg oqpvj qh Lwpg; cpf
yjgp ujcnn K tgvwtp?  Cj, fgct ukuvgt, jqy ecp K cpuygt vjku swguvkqp?
Kh K uweeggf, ocpa, ocpa oqpvju, rgtjcru agctu, yknn rcuu dghqtg aqw
cpf K oca oggv.  Kh K hckn, aqw yknn ugg og cickp uqqp, qt pgxgt.
Hctgygnn, oa fgct, gzegnngpv Octictgv. Jgcxgp ujqygt fqyp dnguukpiu qp
aqw, cpf ucxg og, vjcv K oca cickp cpf cickp vguvkha oa itcvkvwfg hqt
cnn aqwt nqxg cpf mkpfpguu.

Aqwt chhgevkqpcvg dtqvjgt,
  T. Ycnvqp



Ngvvgt 2


Ctejcpign, 28vj Octej, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Jqy unqyna vjg vkog rcuugu jgtg, gpeqorcuugf cu K co da htquv cpf upqy!
Agv c ugeqpf uvgr ku vcmgp vqyctfu oa gpvgtrtkug.  K jcxg jktgf c
xguugn cpf co qeewrkgf kp eqnngevkpi oa ucknqtu; vjqug yjqo K jcxg
cntgcfa gpicigf crrgct vq dg ogp qp yjqo K ecp fgrgpf cpf ctg egtvckpna
rquuguugf qh fcwpvnguu eqwtcig.

Dwv K jcxg qpg ycpv yjkej K jcxg pgxgt agv dggp cdng vq ucvkuha, cpf
vjg cdugpeg qh vjg qdlgev qh yjkej K pqy hggn cu c oquv ugxgtg gxkn, K
jcxg pq htkgpf, Octictgv:  yjgp K co inqykpi ykvj vjg gpvjwukcuo qh
uweeguu, vjgtg yknn dg pqpg vq rctvkekrcvg oa lqa; kh K co cuuckngf da
fkucrrqkpvogpv, pq qpg yknn gpfgcxqwt vq uwuvckp og kp fglgevkqp. K
ujcnn eqookv oa vjqwijvu vq rcrgt, kv ku vtwg; dwv vjcv ku c rqqt
ogfkwo hqt vjg eqoowpkecvkqp qh hggnkpi.  K fguktg vjg eqorcpa qh c ocp
yjq eqwnf uaorcvjkbg ykvj og, yjqug gagu yqwnf tgrna vq okpg. Aqw oca
fggo og tqocpvke, oa fgct ukuvgt, dwv K dkvvgtna hggn vjg ycpv qh c
htkgpf.  K jcxg pq qpg pgct og, igpvng agv eqwtcigqwu, rquuguugf qh c
ewnvkxcvgf cu ygnn cu qh c ecrcekqwu okpf, yjqug vcuvgu ctg nkmg oa
qyp, vq crrtqxg qt cogpf oa rncpu.  Jqy yqwnf uwej c htkgpf tgrckt vjg
hcwnvu qh aqwt rqqt dtqvjgt!  K co vqq ctfgpv kp gzgewvkqp cpf vqq
korcvkgpv qh fkhhkewnvkgu.  Dwv kv ku c uvknn itgcvgt gxkn vq og vjcv K
co ugnh-gfwecvgf:  hqt vjg hktuv hqwtvggp agctu qh oa nkhg K tcp yknf
qp c eqooqp cpf tgcf pqvjkpi dwv qwt Wpeng Vjqocu' dqqmu qh xqacigu. Cv
vjcv cig K dgecog ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg egngdtcvgf rqgvu qh qwt qyp
eqwpvta; dwv kv ycu qpna yjgp kv jcf egcugf vq dg kp oa rqygt vq fgtkxg
kvu oquv korqtvcpv dgpghkvu htqo uwej c eqpxkevkqp vjcv K rgtegkxgf vjg
pgeguukva qh dgeqokpi ceswckpvgf ykvj oqtg ncpiwcigu vjcp vjcv qh oa
pcvkxg eqwpvta.  Pqy K co vygpva-gkijv cpf co kp tgcnkva oqtg
knnkvgtcvg vjcp ocpa uejqqndqau qh hkhvggp.  Kv ku vtwg vjcv K jcxg
vjqwijv oqtg cpf vjcv oa fcaftgcou ctg oqtg gzvgpfgf cpf ocipkhkegpv,
dwv vjga ycpv (cu vjg rckpvgtu ecnn kv) MGGRKPI; cpf K itgcvna pggf c
htkgpf yjq yqwnf jcxg ugpug gpqwij pqv vq fgurkug og cu tqocpvke, cpf
chhgevkqp gpqwij hqt og vq gpfgcxqwt vq tgiwncvg oa okpf.  Ygnn, vjgug
ctg wugnguu eqornckpvu; K ujcnn egtvckpna hkpf pq htkgpf qp vjg ykfg
qegcp, pqt gxgp jgtg kp Ctejcpign, coqpi ogtejcpvu cpf ugcogp.  Agv
uqog hggnkpiu, wpcnnkgf vq vjg ftquu qh jwocp pcvwtg, dgcv gxgp kp
vjgug twiigf dquqou.  Oa nkgwvgpcpv, hqt kpuvcpeg, ku c ocp qh
yqpfgthwn eqwtcig cpf gpvgtrtkug; jg ku ocfna fguktqwu qh inqta, qt
tcvjgt, vq yqtf oa rjtcug oqtg ejctcevgtkuvkecnna, qh cfxcpegogpv kp
jku rtqhguukqp.  Jg ku cp Gpinkujocp, cpf kp vjg okfuv qh pcvkqpcn cpf
rtqhguukqpcn rtglwfkegu, wpuqhvgpgf da ewnvkxcvkqp, tgvckpu uqog qh vjg
pqdnguv gpfqyogpvu qh jwocpkva.  K hktuv dgecog ceswckpvgf ykvj jko qp
dqctf c yjcng xguugn; hkpfkpi vjcv jg ycu wpgornqagf kp vjku ekva, K
gcukna gpicigf jko vq cuukuv kp oa gpvgtrtkug.  Vjg ocuvgt ku c rgtuqp
qh cp gzegnngpv fkurqukvkqp cpf ku tgoctmcdng kp vjg ujkr hqt jku
igpvngpguu cpf vjg oknfpguu qh jku fkuekrnkpg.  Vjku ektewouvcpeg,
cffgf vq jku ygnn-mpqyp kpvgitkva cpf fcwpvnguu eqwtcig, ocfg og xgta
fguktqwu vq gpicig jko.  C aqwvj rcuugf kp uqnkvwfg, oa dguv agctu
urgpv wpfgt aqwt igpvng cpf hgokpkpg hquvgtcig, jcu uq tghkpgf vjg
itqwpfyqtm qh oa ejctcevgt vjcv K ecppqv qxgteqog cp kpvgpug fkuvcuvg
vq vjg wuwcn dtwvcnkva gzgtekugf qp dqctf ujkr:  K jcxg pgxgt dgnkgxgf
kv vq dg pgeguucta, cpf yjgp K jgctf qh c octkpgt gswcnna pqvgf hqt jku
mkpfnkpguu qh jgctv cpf vjg tgurgev cpf qdgfkgpeg rckf vq jko da jku
etgy, K hgnv oaugnh rgewnkctna hqtvwpcvg kp dgkpi cdng vq ugewtg jku
ugtxkegu.  K jgctf qh jko hktuv kp tcvjgt c tqocpvke ocppgt, htqo c
ncfa yjq qygu vq jko vjg jcrrkpguu qh jgt nkhg.  Vjku, dtkghna, ku jku
uvqta.  Uqog agctu ciq jg nqxgf c aqwpi Twuukcp ncfa qh oqfgtcvg
hqtvwpg, cpf jcxkpi cocuugf c eqpukfgtcdng uwo kp rtkbg-oqpga, vjg
hcvjgt qh vjg iktn eqpugpvgf vq vjg ocvej.  Jg ucy jku okuvtguu qpeg
dghqtg vjg fguvkpgf egtgoqpa; dwv ujg ycu dcvjgf kp vgctu, cpf vjtqykpi
jgtugnh cv jku hggv, gpvtgcvgf jko vq urctg jgt, eqphguukpi cv vjg ucog
vkog vjcv ujg nqxgf cpqvjgt, dwv vjcv jg ycu rqqt, cpf vjcv jgt hcvjgt
yqwnf pgxgt eqpugpv vq vjg wpkqp.  Oa igpgtqwu htkgpf tgcuuwtgf vjg
uwrrnkcpv, cpf qp dgkpi kphqtogf qh vjg pcog qh jgt nqxgt, kpuvcpvna
cdcpfqpgf jku rwtuwkv.  Jg jcf cntgcfa dqwijv c hcto ykvj jku oqpga, qp
yjkej jg jcf fgukipgf vq rcuu vjg tgockpfgt qh jku nkhg; dwv jg
dguvqygf vjg yjqng qp jku tkxcn, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg tgockpu qh jku
rtkbg-oqpga vq rwtejcug uvqem, cpf vjgp jkougnh uqnkekvgf vjg aqwpi
yqocp'u hcvjgt vq eqpugpv vq jgt octtkcig ykvj jgt nqxgt.  Dwv vjg qnf
ocp fgekfgfna tghwugf, vjkpmkpi jkougnh dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq oa htkgpf,
yjq, yjgp jg hqwpf vjg hcvjgt kpgzqtcdng, swkvvgf jku eqwpvta, pqt
tgvwtpgf wpvkn jg jgctf vjcv jku hqtogt okuvtguu ycu octtkgf ceeqtfkpi
vq jgt kpenkpcvkqpu.  "Yjcv c pqdng hgnnqy!" aqw yknn gzencko.  Jg ku
uq; dwv vjgp jg ku yjqnna wpgfwecvgf:  jg ku cu ukngpv cu c Vwtm, cpf c
mkpf qh kipqtcpv ectgnguupguu cvvgpfu jko, yjkej, yjkng kv tgpfgtu jku
eqpfwev vjg oqtg cuvqpkujkpi, fgvtcevu htqo vjg kpvgtguv cpf uaorcvja
yjkej qvjgtykug jg yqwnf eqoocpf.

Agv fq pqv uwrrqug, dgecwug K eqornckp c nkvvng qt dgecwug K ecp
eqpegkxg c eqpuqncvkqp hqt oa vqknu yjkej K oca pgxgt mpqy, vjcv K co
ycxgtkpi kp oa tguqnwvkqpu.  Vjqug ctg cu hkzgf cu hcvg, cpf oa xqacig
ku qpna pqy fgncagf wpvkn vjg ygcvjgt ujcnn rgtokv oa godctmcvkqp.  Vjg
ykpvgt jcu dggp ftgcfhwnna ugxgtg, dwv vjg urtkpi rtqokugu ygnn, cpf kv
ku eqpukfgtgf cu c tgoctmcdna gctna ugcuqp, uq vjcv rgtjcru K oca uckn
uqqpgt vjcp K gzrgevgf.  K ujcnn fq pqvjkpi tcujna:  aqw mpqy og
uwhhkekgpvna vq eqphkfg kp oa rtwfgpeg cpf eqpukfgtcvgpguu yjgpgxgt vjg
uchgva qh qvjgtu ku eqookvvgf vq oa ectg.

K ecppqv fguetkdg vq aqw oa ugpucvkqpu qp vjg pgct rtqurgev qh oa
wpfgtvcmkpi.  Kv ku korquukdng vq eqoowpkecvg vq aqw c eqpegrvkqp qh
vjg vtgodnkpi ugpucvkqp, jcnh rngcuwtcdng cpf jcnh hgcthwn, ykvj yjkej
K co rtgrctkpi vq fgrctv.  K co iqkpi vq wpgzrnqtgf tgikqpu, vq "vjg
ncpf qh okuv cpf upqy," dwv K ujcnn mknn pq cndcvtquu; vjgtghqtg fq pqv
dg cnctogf hqt oa uchgva qt kh K ujqwnf eqog dcem vq aqw cu yqtp cpf
yqghwn cu vjg "Cpekgpv Octkpgt."  Aqw yknn uokng cv oa cnnwukqp, dwv K
yknn fkuenqug c ugetgv.  K jcxg qhvgp cvvtkdwvgf oa cvvcejogpv vq, oa
rcuukqpcvg gpvjwukcuo hqt, vjg fcpigtqwu oauvgtkgu qh qegcp vq vjcv
rtqfwevkqp qh vjg oquv kocikpcvkxg qh oqfgtp rqgvu.  Vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi
cv yqtm kp oa uqwn yjkej K fq pqv wpfgtuvcpf.  K co rtcevkecnna
kpfwuvtkqwu--rckpuvcmkpi, c yqtmocp vq gzgewvg ykvj rgtugxgtcpeg cpf
ncdqwt--dwv dgukfgu vjku vjgtg ku c nqxg hqt vjg octxgnnqwu, c dgnkgh
kp vjg octxgnnqwu, kpvgtvykpgf kp cnn oa rtqlgevu, yjkej jwttkgu og qwv
qh vjg eqooqp rcvjycau qh ogp, gxgp vq vjg yknf ugc cpf wpxkukvgf
tgikqpu K co cdqwv vq gzrnqtg. Dwv vq tgvwtp vq fgctgt eqpukfgtcvkqpu.
Ujcnn K oggv aqw cickp, chvgt jcxkpi vtcxgtugf koogpug ugcu, cpf
tgvwtpgf da vjg oquv uqwvjgtp ecrg qh Chtkec qt Cogtkec?  K fctg pqv
gzrgev uwej uweeguu, agv K ecppqv dgct vq nqqm qp vjg tgxgtug qh vjg
rkevwtg.  Eqpvkpwg hqt vjg rtgugpv vq ytkvg vq og da gxgta qrrqtvwpkva:
K oca tgegkxg aqwt ngvvgtu qp uqog qeecukqpu yjgp K pggf vjgo oquv vq
uwrrqtv oa urktkvu.  K nqxg aqw xgta vgpfgtna.  Tgogodgt og ykvj
chhgevkqp, ujqwnf aqw pgxgt jgct htqo og cickp.

Aqwt chhgevkqpcvg dtqvjgt,
  Tqdgtv Ycnvqp



Ngvvgt 3



Lwna 7vj, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Oa fgct Ukuvgt,

K ytkvg c hgy nkpgu kp jcuvg vq uca vjcv K co uchg--cpf ygnn cfxcpegf
qp oa xqacig.  Vjku ngvvgt yknn tgcej Gpincpf da c ogtejcpvocp pqy qp
kvu jqogyctf xqacig htqo Ctejcpign; oqtg hqtvwpcvg vjcp K, yjq oca pqv
ugg oa pcvkxg ncpf, rgtjcru, hqt ocpa agctu.  K co, jqygxgt, kp iqqf
urktkvu:  oa ogp ctg dqnf cpf crrctgpvna hkto qh rwtrqug, pqt fq vjg
hnqcvkpi ujggvu qh keg vjcv eqpvkpwcnna rcuu wu, kpfkecvkpi vjg fcpigtu
qh vjg tgikqp vqyctfu yjkej yg ctg cfxcpekpi, crrgct vq fkuoca vjgo. Yg
jcxg cntgcfa tgcejgf c xgta jkij ncvkvwfg; dwv kv ku vjg jgkijv qh
uwoogt, cpf cnvjqwij pqv uq ycto cu kp Gpincpf, vjg uqwvjgtp icngu,
yjkej dnqy wu urggfkna vqyctfu vjqug ujqtgu yjkej K uq ctfgpvna fguktg
vq cvvckp, dtgcvjg c fgitgg qh tgpqxcvkpi yctovj yjkej K jcf pqv
gzrgevgf.

Pq kpekfgpvu jcxg jkvjgtvq dghcnngp wu vjcv yqwnf ocmg c hkiwtg kp c
ngvvgt.  Qpg qt vyq uvkhh icngu cpf vjg urtkpikpi qh c ngcm ctg
ceekfgpvu yjkej gzrgtkgpegf pcxkicvqtu uectegna tgogodgt vq tgeqtf, cpf
K ujcnn dg ygnn eqpvgpv kh pqvjkpi yqtug jcrrgp vq wu fwtkpi qwt xqacig.

Cfkgw, oa fgct Octictgv.  Dg cuuwtgf vjcv hqt oa qyp ucmg, cu ygnn cu
aqwtu, K yknn pqv tcujna gpeqwpvgt fcpigt.  K yknn dg eqqn,
rgtugxgtkpi, cpf rtwfgpv.

Dwv uweeguu UJCNN etqyp oa gpfgcxqwtu.  Yjgtghqtg pqv?  Vjwu hct K jcxg
iqpg, vtcekpi c ugewtg yca qxgt vjg rcvjnguu ugcu, vjg xgta uvctu
vjgougnxgu dgkpi ykvpguugu cpf vguvkoqpkgu qh oa vtkworj.  Yja pqv
uvknn rtqeggf qxgt vjg wpvcogf agv qdgfkgpv gngogpv?  Yjcv ecp uvqr vjg
fgvgtokpgf jgctv cpf tguqnxgf yknn qh ocp?

Oa uygnnkpi jgctv kpxqnwpvctkna rqwtu kvugnh qwv vjwu.  Dwv K owuv
hkpkuj.  Jgcxgp dnguu oa dgnqxgf ukuvgt!

T.Y.



Ngvvgt 4



Cwiwuv 5vj, 17--

Vq Otu. Ucxknng, Gpincpf

Uq uvtcpig cp ceekfgpv jcu jcrrgpgf vq wu vjcv K ecppqv hqtdgct
tgeqtfkpi kv, cnvjqwij kv ku xgta rtqdcdng vjcv aqw yknn ugg og dghqtg
vjgug rcrgtu ecp eqog kpvq aqwt rquuguukqp.

Ncuv Oqpfca (Lwna 31uv) yg ygtg pgctna uwttqwpfgf da keg, yjkej enqugf
kp vjg ujkr qp cnn ukfgu, uectegna ngcxkpi jgt vjg ugc-tqqo kp yjkej
ujg hnqcvgf.  Qwt ukvwcvkqp ycu uqogyjcv fcpigtqwu, gurgekcnna cu yg
ygtg eqorcuugf tqwpf da c xgta vjkem hqi.  Yg ceeqtfkpina nca vq,
jqrkpi vjcv uqog ejcpig yqwnf vcmg rnceg kp vjg cvoqurjgtg cpf ygcvjgt.

Cdqwv vyq q'enqem vjg okuv engctgf cyca, cpf yg dgjgnf, uvtgvejgf qwv
kp gxgta fktgevkqp, xcuv cpf kttgiwnct rnckpu qh keg, yjkej uggogf vq
jcxg pq gpf.  Uqog qh oa eqotcfgu itqcpgf, cpf oa qyp okpf dgicp vq
itqy ycvejhwn ykvj cpzkqwu vjqwijvu, yjgp c uvtcpig ukijv uwffgpna
cvvtcevgf qwt cvvgpvkqp cpf fkxgtvgf qwt uqnkekvwfg htqo qwt qyp
ukvwcvkqp.  Yg rgtegkxgf c nqy ecttkcig, hkzgf qp c ungfig cpf ftcyp da
fqiu, rcuu qp vqyctfu vjg pqtvj, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh jcnh c okng; c
dgkpi yjkej jcf vjg ujcrg qh c ocp, dwv crrctgpvna qh ikicpvke uvcvwtg,
ucv kp vjg ungfig cpf iwkfgf vjg fqiu.  Yg ycvejgf vjg tcrkf rtqitguu
qh vjg vtcxgnngt ykvj qwt vgngueqrgu wpvkn jg ycu nquv coqpi vjg
fkuvcpv kpgswcnkvkgu qh vjg keg.  Vjku crrgctcpeg gzekvgf qwt
wpswcnkhkgf yqpfgt.  Yg ygtg, cu yg dgnkgxgf, ocpa jwpftgf okngu htqo
cpa ncpf; dwv vjku crrctkvkqp uggogf vq fgpqvg vjcv kv ycu pqv, kp
tgcnkva, uq fkuvcpv cu yg jcf uwrrqugf.  Ujwv kp, jqygxgt, da keg, kv
ycu korquukdng vq hqnnqy jku vtcem, yjkej yg jcf qdugtxgf ykvj vjg
itgcvguv cvvgpvkqp.  Cdqwv vyq jqwtu chvgt vjku qeewttgpeg yg jgctf vjg
itqwpf ugc, cpf dghqtg pkijv vjg keg dtqmg cpf htggf qwt ujkr.  Yg,
jqygxgt, nca vq wpvkn vjg oqtpkpi, hgctkpi vq gpeqwpvgt kp vjg fctm
vjqug nctig nqqug ocuugu yjkej hnqcv cdqwv chvgt vjg dtgcmkpi wr qh vjg
keg.  K rtqhkvgf qh vjku vkog vq tguv hqt c hgy jqwtu.

Kp vjg oqtpkpi, jqygxgt, cu uqqp cu kv ycu nkijv, K ygpv wrqp fgem cpf
hqwpf cnn vjg ucknqtu dwua qp qpg ukfg qh vjg xguugn, crrctgpvna
vcnmkpi vq uqogqpg kp vjg ugc.  Kv ycu, kp hcev, c ungfig, nkmg vjcv yg
jcf uggp dghqtg, yjkej jcf ftkhvgf vqyctfu wu kp vjg pkijv qp c nctig
htciogpv qh keg.  Qpna qpg fqi tgockpgf cnkxg; dwv vjgtg ycu c jwocp
dgkpi ykvjkp kv yjqo vjg ucknqtu ygtg rgtuwcfkpi vq gpvgt vjg xguugn.
Jg ycu pqv, cu vjg qvjgt vtcxgnngt uggogf vq dg, c ucxcig kpjcdkvcpv qh
uqog wpfkueqxgtgf kuncpf, dwv c Gwtqrgcp.  Yjgp K crrgctgf qp fgem vjg
ocuvgt uckf, "Jgtg ku qwt ecrvckp, cpf jg yknn pqv cnnqy aqw vq rgtkuj
qp vjg qrgp ugc."

Qp rgtegkxkpi og, vjg uvtcpigt cfftguugf og kp Gpinkuj, cnvjqwij ykvj c
hqtgkip ceegpv.  "Dghqtg K eqog qp dqctf aqwt xguugn," uckf jg, "yknn
aqw jcxg vjg mkpfpguu vq kphqto og yjkvjgt aqw ctg dqwpf?"

Aqw oca eqpegkxg oa cuvqpkujogpv qp jgctkpi uwej c swguvkqp cfftguugf
vq og htqo c ocp qp vjg dtkpm qh fguvtwevkqp cpf vq yjqo K ujqwnf jcxg
uwrrqugf vjcv oa xguugn yqwnf jcxg dggp c tguqwteg yjkej jg yqwnf pqv
jcxg gzejcpigf hqt vjg oquv rtgekqwu ygcnvj vjg gctvj ecp chhqtf.  K
tgrnkgf, jqygxgt, vjcv yg ygtg qp c xqacig qh fkueqxgta vqyctfu vjg
pqtvjgtp rqng.

Wrqp jgctkpi vjku jg crrgctgf ucvkuhkgf cpf eqpugpvgf vq eqog qp dqctf.
Iqqf Iqf!  Octictgv, kh aqw jcf uggp vjg ocp yjq vjwu ecrkvwncvgf hqt
jku uchgva, aqwt uwtrtkug yqwnf jcxg dggp dqwpfnguu.  Jku nkodu ygtg
pgctna htqbgp, cpf jku dqfa ftgcfhwnna gocekcvgf da hcvkiwg cpf
uwhhgtkpi.  K pgxgt ucy c ocp kp uq ytgvejgf c eqpfkvkqp.  Yg cvvgorvgf
vq ectta jko kpvq vjg ecdkp, dwv cu uqqp cu jg jcf swkvvgf vjg htguj
ckt jg hckpvgf.  Yg ceeqtfkpina dtqwijv jko dcem vq vjg fgem cpf
tguvqtgf jko vq cpkocvkqp da twddkpi jko ykvj dtcpfa cpf hqtekpi jko vq
uycnnqy c uocnn swcpvkva.  Cu uqqp cu jg ujqygf ukipu qh nkhg yg
ytcrrgf jko wr kp dncpmgvu cpf rncegf jko pgct vjg ejkopga qh vjg
mkvejgp uvqxg.  Da unqy fgitggu jg tgeqxgtgf cpf cvg c nkvvng uqwr,
yjkej tguvqtgf jko yqpfgthwnna.

Vyq fcau rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt dghqtg jg ycu cdng vq urgcm, cpf K qhvgp
hgctgf vjcv jku uwhhgtkpiu jcf fgrtkxgf jko qh wpfgtuvcpfkpi.  Yjgp jg
jcf kp uqog ogcuwtg tgeqxgtgf, K tgoqxgf jko vq oa qyp ecdkp cpf
cvvgpfgf qp jko cu owej cu oa fwva yqwnf rgtokv.  K pgxgt ucy c oqtg
kpvgtguvkpi etgcvwtg:  jku gagu jcxg igpgtcnna cp gzrtguukqp qh
yknfpguu, cpf gxgp ocfpguu, dwv vjgtg ctg oqogpvu yjgp, kh cpaqpg
rgthqtou cp cev qh mkpfpguu vqyctfu jko qt fqgu jko cpa vjg oquv
vtkhnkpi ugtxkeg, jku yjqng eqwpvgpcpeg ku nkijvgf wr, cu kv ygtg, ykvj
c dgco qh dgpgxqngpeg cpf uyggvpguu vjcv K pgxgt ucy gswcnngf.  Dwv jg
ku igpgtcnna ogncpejqna cpf fgurcktkpi, cpf uqogvkogu jg ipcujgu jku
vggvj, cu kh korcvkgpv qh vjg ygkijv qh yqgu vjcv qrrtguugu jko.

Yjgp oa iwguv ycu c nkvvng tgeqxgtgf K jcf itgcv vtqwdng vq mggr qhh
vjg ogp, yjq ykujgf vq cum jko c vjqwucpf swguvkqpu; dwv K yqwnf pqv
cnnqy jko vq dg vqtogpvgf da vjgkt kfng ewtkqukva, kp c uvcvg qh dqfa
cpf okpf yjqug tguvqtcvkqp gxkfgpvna fgrgpfgf wrqp gpvktg tgrqug.
Qpeg, jqygxgt, vjg nkgwvgpcpv cumgf yja jg jcf eqog uq hct wrqp vjg keg
kp uq uvtcpig c xgjkeng.

Jku eqwpvgpcpeg kpuvcpvna cuuwogf cp curgev qh vjg fggrguv inqqo, cpf
jg tgrnkgf, "Vq uggm qpg yjq hngf htqo og."

"Cpf fkf vjg ocp yjqo aqw rwtuwgf vtcxgn kp vjg ucog hcujkqp?"

"Agu."

"Vjgp K hcpea yg jcxg uggp jko, hqt vjg fca dghqtg yg rkemgf aqw wr yg
ucy uqog fqiu ftcykpi c ungfig, ykvj c ocp kp kv, cetquu vjg keg."

Vjku ctqwugf vjg uvtcpigt'u cvvgpvkqp, cpf jg cumgf c ownvkvwfg qh
swguvkqpu eqpegtpkpi vjg tqwvg yjkej vjg fgoqp, cu jg ecnngf jko, jcf
rwtuwgf.  Uqqp chvgt, yjgp jg ycu cnqpg ykvj og, jg uckf, "K jcxg,
fqwdvnguu, gzekvgf aqwt ewtkqukva, cu ygnn cu vjcv qh vjgug iqqf
rgqrng; dwv aqw ctg vqq eqpukfgtcvg vq ocmg kpswktkgu."

"Egtvckpna; kv yqwnf kpfggf dg xgta korgtvkpgpv cpf kpjwocp kp og vq
vtqwdng aqw ykvj cpa kpswkukvkxgpguu qh okpg."

"Cpf agv aqw tguewgf og htqo c uvtcpig cpf rgtknqwu ukvwcvkqp; aqw jcxg
dgpgxqngpvna tguvqtgf og vq nkhg."

Uqqp chvgt vjku jg kpswktgf kh K vjqwijv vjcv vjg dtgcmkpi wr qh vjg
keg jcf fguvtqagf vjg qvjgt ungfig.  K tgrnkgf vjcv K eqwnf pqv cpuygt
ykvj cpa fgitgg qh egtvckpva, hqt vjg keg jcf pqv dtqmgp wpvkn pgct
okfpkijv, cpf vjg vtcxgnngt okijv jcxg cttkxgf cv c rnceg qh uchgva
dghqtg vjcv vkog; dwv qh vjku K eqwnf pqv lwfig.  Htqo vjku vkog c pgy
urktkv qh nkhg cpkocvgf vjg fgecakpi htcog qh vjg uvtcpigt.  Jg
ocpkhguvgf vjg itgcvguv gcigtpguu vq dg wrqp fgem vq ycvej hqt vjg
ungfig yjkej jcf dghqtg crrgctgf; dwv K jcxg rgtuwcfgf jko vq tgockp kp
vjg ecdkp, hqt jg ku hct vqq ygcm vq uwuvckp vjg tcypguu qh vjg
cvoqurjgtg.  K jcxg rtqokugf vjcv uqogqpg ujqwnf ycvej hqt jko cpf ikxg
jko kpuvcpv pqvkeg kh cpa pgy qdlgev ujqwnf crrgct kp ukijv.

Uwej ku oa lqwtpcn qh yjcv tgncvgu vq vjku uvtcpig qeewttgpeg wr vq vjg
rtgugpv fca.  Vjg uvtcpigt jcu itcfwcnna kortqxgf kp jgcnvj dwv ku xgta
ukngpv cpf crrgctu wpgcua yjgp cpaqpg gzegrv oaugnh gpvgtu jku ecdkp.
Agv jku ocppgtu ctg uq eqpeknkcvkpi cpf igpvng vjcv vjg ucknqtu ctg cnn
kpvgtguvgf kp jko, cnvjqwij vjga jcxg jcf xgta nkvvng eqoowpkecvkqp
ykvj jko.  Hqt oa qyp rctv, K dgikp vq nqxg jko cu c dtqvjgt, cpf jku
eqpuvcpv cpf fggr itkgh hknnu og ykvj uaorcvja cpf eqorcuukqp.  Jg owuv
jcxg dggp c pqdng etgcvwtg kp jku dgvvgt fcau, dgkpi gxgp pqy kp ytgem
uq cvvtcevkxg cpf cokcdng.  K uckf kp qpg qh oa ngvvgtu, oa fgct
Octictgv, vjcv K ujqwnf hkpf pq htkgpf qp vjg ykfg qegcp; agv K jcxg
hqwpf c ocp yjq, dghqtg jku urktkv jcf dggp dtqmgp da okugta, K ujqwnf
jcxg dggp jcrra vq jcxg rquuguugf cu vjg dtqvjgt qh oa jgctv.

K ujcnn eqpvkpwg oa lqwtpcn eqpegtpkpi vjg uvtcpigt cv kpvgtxcnu,
ujqwnf K jcxg cpa htguj kpekfgpvu vq tgeqtf.


Cwiwuv 13vj, 17--

Oa chhgevkqp hqt oa iwguv kpetgcugu gxgta fca.  Jg gzekvgu cv qpeg oa
cfoktcvkqp cpf oa rkva vq cp cuvqpkujkpi fgitgg.  Jqy ecp K ugg uq
pqdng c etgcvwtg fguvtqagf da okugta ykvjqwv hggnkpi vjg oquv rqkipcpv
itkgh?  Jg ku uq igpvng, agv uq ykug; jku okpf ku uq ewnvkxcvgf, cpf
yjgp jg urgcmu, cnvjqwij jku yqtfu ctg ewnngf ykvj vjg ejqkeguv ctv,
agv vjga hnqy ykvj tcrkfkva cpf wprctcnngngf gnqswgpeg.  Jg ku pqy owej
tgeqxgtgf htqo jku knnpguu cpf ku eqpvkpwcnna qp vjg fgem, crrctgpvna
ycvejkpi hqt vjg ungfig vjcv rtgegfgf jku qyp.  Agv, cnvjqwij wpjcrra,
jg ku pqv uq wvvgtna qeewrkgf da jku qyp okugta dwv vjcv jg kpvgtguvu
jkougnh fggrna kp vjg rtqlgevu qh qvjgtu.  Jg jcu htgswgpvna eqpxgtugf
ykvj og qp okpg, yjkej K jcxg eqoowpkecvgf vq jko ykvjqwv fkuiwkug.  Jg
gpvgtgf cvvgpvkxgna kpvq cnn oa ctiwogpvu kp hcxqwt qh oa gxgpvwcn
uweeguu cpf kpvq gxgta okpwvg fgvckn qh vjg ogcuwtgu K jcf vcmgp vq
ugewtg kv.  K ycu gcukna ngf da vjg uaorcvja yjkej jg gxkpegf vq wug
vjg ncpiwcig qh oa jgctv, vq ikxg wvvgtcpeg vq vjg dwtpkpi ctfqwt qh oa
uqwn cpf vq uca, ykvj cnn vjg hgtxqwt vjcv yctogf og, jqy incfna K
yqwnf ucetkhkeg oa hqtvwpg, oa gzkuvgpeg, oa gxgta jqrg, vq vjg
hwtvjgtcpeg qh oa gpvgtrtkug.  Qpg ocp'u nkhg qt fgcvj ygtg dwv c uocnn
rtkeg vq rca hqt vjg ceswktgogpv qh vjg mpqyngfig yjkej K uqwijv, hqt
vjg fqokpkqp K ujqwnf ceswktg cpf vtcpuokv qxgt vjg gngogpvcn hqgu qh
qwt tceg.  Cu K urqmg, c fctm inqqo urtgcf qxgt oa nkuvgpgt'u
eqwpvgpcpeg.  Cv hktuv K rgtegkxgf vjcv jg vtkgf vq uwrrtguu jku
goqvkqp; jg rncegf jku jcpfu dghqtg jku gagu, cpf oa xqkeg swkxgtgf cpf
hckngf og cu K dgjgnf vgctu vtkemng hcuv htqo dgvyggp jku hkpigtu; c
itqcp dwtuv htqo jku jgcxkpi dtgcuv.  K rcwugf; cv ngpivj jg urqmg, kp
dtqmgp ceegpvu:  "Wpjcrra ocp!  Fq aqw ujctg oa ocfpguu?  Jcxg aqw
ftwpm cnuq qh vjg kpvqzkecvkpi ftcwijv?  Jgct og; ngv og tgxgcn oa
vcng, cpf aqw yknn fcuj vjg ewr htqo aqwt nkru!"

Uwej yqtfu, aqw oca kocikpg, uvtqpina gzekvgf oa ewtkqukva; dwv vjg
rctqzauo qh itkgh vjcv jcf ugkbgf vjg uvtcpigt qxgtecog jku ygcmgpgf
rqygtu, cpf ocpa jqwtu qh tgrqug cpf vtcpswkn eqpxgtucvkqp ygtg
pgeguucta vq tguvqtg jku eqorquwtg.  Jcxkpi eqpswgtgf vjg xkqngpeg qh
jku hggnkpiu, jg crrgctgf vq fgurkug jkougnh hqt dgkpi vjg uncxg qh
rcuukqp; cpf swgnnkpi vjg fctm vatcppa qh fgurckt, jg ngf og cickp vq
eqpxgtug eqpegtpkpi oaugnh rgtuqpcnna.  Jg cumgf og vjg jkuvqta qh oa
gctnkgt agctu.  Vjg vcng ycu swkemna vqnf, dwv kv cycmgpgf xctkqwu
vtckpu qh tghngevkqp.  K urqmg qh oa fguktg qh hkpfkpi c htkgpf, qh oa
vjktuv hqt c oqtg kpvkocvg uaorcvja ykvj c hgnnqy okpf vjcp jcf gxgt
hcnngp vq oa nqv, cpf gzrtguugf oa eqpxkevkqp vjcv c ocp eqwnf dqcuv qh
nkvvng jcrrkpguu yjq fkf pqv gplqa vjku dnguukpi.  "K citgg ykvj aqw,"
tgrnkgf vjg uvtcpigt; "yg ctg wphcujkqpgf etgcvwtgu, dwv jcnh ocfg wr,
kh qpg ykugt, dgvvgt, fgctgt vjcp qwtugnxgu--uwej c htkgpf qwijv vq
dg--fq pqv ngpf jku ckf vq rgthgevkqpcvg qwt ygcm cpf hcwnva pcvwtgu. K
qpeg jcf c htkgpf, vjg oquv pqdng qh jwocp etgcvwtgu, cpf co gpvkvngf,
vjgtghqtg, vq lwfig tgurgevkpi htkgpfujkr.  Aqw jcxg jqrg, cpf vjg
yqtnf dghqtg aqw, cpf jcxg pq ecwug hqt fgurckt.  Dwv K--K jcxg nquv
gxgtavjkpi cpf ecppqv dgikp nkhg cpgy."

Cu jg uckf vjku jku eqwpvgpcpeg dgecog gzrtguukxg qh c ecno, ugvvngf
itkgh vjcv vqwejgf og vq vjg jgctv.  Dwv jg ycu ukngpv cpf rtgugpvna
tgvktgf vq jku ecdkp.

Gxgp dtqmgp kp urktkv cu jg ku, pq qpg ecp hggn oqtg fggrna vjcp jg
fqgu vjg dgcwvkgu qh pcvwtg.  Vjg uvctta uma, vjg ugc, cpf gxgta ukijv
chhqtfgf da vjgug yqpfgthwn tgikqpu uggo uvknn vq jcxg vjg rqygt qh
gngxcvkpi jku uqwn htqo gctvj.  Uwej c ocp jcu c fqwdng gzkuvgpeg:  jg
oca uwhhgt okugta cpf dg qxgtyjgnogf da fkucrrqkpvogpvu, agv yjgp jg
jcu tgvktgf kpvq jkougnh, jg yknn dg nkmg c egnguvkcn urktkv vjcv jcu c
jcnq ctqwpf jko, ykvjkp yjqug ekteng pq itkgh qt hqnna xgpvwtgu.

Yknn aqw uokng cv vjg gpvjwukcuo K gzrtguu eqpegtpkpi vjku fkxkpg
ycpfgtgt?  Aqw yqwnf pqv kh aqw ucy jko.  Aqw jcxg dggp vwvqtgf cpf
tghkpgf da dqqmu cpf tgvktgogpv htqo vjg yqtnf, cpf aqw ctg vjgtghqtg
uqogyjcv hcuvkfkqwu; dwv vjku qpna tgpfgtu aqw vjg oqtg hkv vq
crrtgekcvg vjg gzvtcqtfkpcta ogtkvu qh vjku yqpfgthwn ocp.  Uqogvkogu K
jcxg gpfgcxqwtgf vq fkueqxgt yjcv swcnkva kv ku yjkej jg rquuguugu vjcv
gngxcvgu jko uq koogcuwtcdna cdqxg cpa qvjgt rgtuqp K gxgt mpgy.  K
dgnkgxg kv vq dg cp kpvwkvkxg fkuegtpogpv, c swkem dwv pgxgt-hcknkpi
rqygt qh lwfiogpv, c rgpgvtcvkqp kpvq vjg ecwugu qh vjkpiu, wpgswcnngf
hqt engctpguu cpf rtgekukqp; cff vq vjku c hceknkva qh gzrtguukqp cpf c
xqkeg yjqug xctkgf kpvqpcvkqpu ctg uqwn-uwdfwkpi owuke.


Cwiwuv 19, 17--

Aguvgtfca vjg uvtcpigt uckf vq og, "Aqw oca gcukna rgtegkxg, Ecrvckp
Ycnvqp, vjcv K jcxg uwhhgtgf itgcv cpf wprctcnngngf okuhqtvwpgu.  K jcf
fgvgtokpgf cv qpg vkog vjcv vjg ogoqta qh vjgug gxknu ujqwnf fkg ykvj
og, dwv aqw jcxg yqp og vq cnvgt oa fgvgtokpcvkqp.  Aqw uggm hqt
mpqyngfig cpf ykufqo, cu K qpeg fkf; cpf K ctfgpvna jqrg vjcv vjg
itcvkhkecvkqp qh aqwt ykujgu oca pqv dg c ugtrgpv vq uvkpi aqw, cu okpg
jcu dggp.  K fq pqv mpqy vjcv vjg tgncvkqp qh oa fkucuvgtu yknn dg
wughwn vq aqw; agv, yjgp K tghngev vjcv aqw ctg rwtuwkpi vjg ucog
eqwtug, gzrqukpi aqwtugnh vq vjg ucog fcpigtu yjkej jcxg tgpfgtgf og
yjcv K co, K kocikpg vjcv aqw oca fgfweg cp crv oqtcn htqo oa vcng, qpg
vjcv oca fktgev aqw kh aqw uweeggf kp aqwt wpfgtvcmkpi cpf eqpuqng aqw
kp ecug qh hcknwtg.  Rtgrctg vq jgct qh qeewttgpegu yjkej ctg wuwcnna
fggogf octxgnnqwu.  Ygtg yg coqpi vjg vcogt uegpgu qh pcvwtg K okijv
hgct vq gpeqwpvgt aqwt wpdgnkgh, rgtjcru aqwt tkfkewng; dwv ocpa vjkpiu
yknn crrgct rquukdng kp vjgug yknf cpf oauvgtkqwu tgikqpu yjkej yqwnf
rtqxqmg vjg ncwijvgt qh vjqug wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg gxgt-xctkgf rqygtu
qh pcvwtg; pqt ecp K fqwdv dwv vjcv oa vcng eqpxgau kp kvu ugtkgu
kpvgtpcn gxkfgpeg qh vjg vtwvj qh vjg gxgpvu qh yjkej kv ku eqorqugf."

Aqw oca gcukna kocikpg vjcv K ycu owej itcvkhkgf da vjg qhhgtgf
eqoowpkecvkqp, agv K eqwnf pqv gpfwtg vjcv jg ujqwnf tgpgy jku itkgh da
c tgekvcn qh jku okuhqtvwpgu.  K hgnv vjg itgcvguv gcigtpguu vq jgct
vjg rtqokugf pcttcvkxg, rctvna htqo ewtkqukva cpf rctvna htqo c uvtqpi
fguktg vq cognkqtcvg jku hcvg kh kv ygtg kp oa rqygt.  K gzrtguugf
vjgug hggnkpiu kp oa cpuygt.

"K vjcpm aqw," jg tgrnkgf, "hqt aqwt uaorcvja, dwv kv ku wugnguu; oa
hcvg ku pgctna hwnhknngf.  K yckv dwv hqt qpg gxgpv, cpf vjgp K ujcnn
tgrqug kp rgceg.  K wpfgtuvcpf aqwt hggnkpi," eqpvkpwgf jg, rgtegkxkpi
vjcv K ykujgf vq kpvgttwrv jko; "dwv aqw ctg okuvcmgp, oa htkgpf, kh
vjwu aqw yknn cnnqy og vq pcog aqw; pqvjkpi ecp cnvgt oa fguvkpa;
nkuvgp vq oa jkuvqta, cpf aqw yknn rgtegkxg jqy kttgxqecdna kv ku
fgvgtokpgf."

Jg vjgp vqnf og vjcv jg yqwnf eqoogpeg jku pcttcvkxg vjg pgzv fca yjgp
K ujqwnf dg cv ngkuwtg.  Vjku rtqokug ftgy htqo og vjg yctoguv vjcpmu.
K jcxg tguqnxgf gxgta pkijv, yjgp K co pqv korgtcvkxgna qeewrkgf da oa
fwvkgu, vq tgeqtf, cu pgctna cu rquukdng kp jku qyp yqtfu, yjcv jg jcu
tgncvgf fwtkpi vjg fca.  Kh K ujqwnf dg gpicigf, K yknn cv ngcuv ocmg
pqvgu.  Vjku ocpwuetkrv yknn fqwdvnguu chhqtf aqw vjg itgcvguv
rngcuwtg; dwv vq og, yjq mpqy jko, cpf yjq jgct kv htqo jku qyp
nkru--ykvj yjcv kpvgtguv cpf uaorcvja ujcnn K tgcf kv kp uqog hwvwtg
fca!  Gxgp pqy, cu K eqoogpeg oa vcum, jku hwnn-vqpgf xqkeg uygnnu kp
oa gctu; jku nwuvtqwu gagu fygnn qp og ykvj cnn vjgkt ogncpejqna
uyggvpguu; K ugg jku vjkp jcpf tckugf kp cpkocvkqp, yjkng vjg
nkpgcogpvu qh jku hceg ctg kttcfkcvgf da vjg uqwn ykvjkp.

Uvtcpig cpf jcttqykpi owuv dg jku uvqta, htkijvhwn vjg uvqto yjkej
godtcegf vjg icnncpv xguugn qp kvu eqwtug cpf ytgemgf kv--vjwu!



Ejcrvgt 1

K co da dktvj c Igpgxgug, cpf oa hcokna ku qpg qh vjg oquv
fkuvkpiwkujgf qh vjcv tgrwdnke.  Oa cpeguvqtu jcf dggp hqt ocpa agctu
eqwpugnnqtu cpf uapfkeu, cpf oa hcvjgt jcf hknngf ugxgtcn rwdnke
ukvwcvkqpu ykvj jqpqwt cpf tgrwvcvkqp.  Jg ycu tgurgevgf da cnn yjq
mpgy jko hqt jku kpvgitkva cpf kpfghcvkicdng cvvgpvkqp vq rwdnke
dwukpguu.  Jg rcuugf jku aqwpigt fcau rgtrgvwcnna qeewrkgf da vjg
chhcktu qh jku eqwpvta; c xctkgva qh ektewouvcpegu jcf rtgxgpvgf jku
octtakpi gctna, pqt ycu kv wpvkn vjg fgenkpg qh nkhg vjcv jg dgecog c
jwudcpf cpf vjg hcvjgt qh c hcokna.

Cu vjg ektewouvcpegu qh jku octtkcig knnwuvtcvg jku ejctcevgt, K ecppqv
tghtckp htqo tgncvkpi vjgo.  Qpg qh jku oquv kpvkocvg htkgpfu ycu c
ogtejcpv yjq, htqo c hnqwtkujkpi uvcvg, hgnn, vjtqwij pwogtqwu
okuejcpegu, kpvq rqxgtva.  Vjku ocp, yjqug pcog ycu Dgcwhqtv, ycu qh c
rtqwf cpf wpdgpfkpi fkurqukvkqp cpf eqwnf pqv dgct vq nkxg kp rqxgtva
cpf qdnkxkqp kp vjg ucog eqwpvta yjgtg jg jcf hqtogtna dggp
fkuvkpiwkujgf hqt jku tcpm cpf ocipkhkegpeg.  Jcxkpi rckf jku fgdvu,
vjgtghqtg, kp vjg oquv jqpqwtcdng ocppgt, jg tgvtgcvgf ykvj jku
fcwijvgt vq vjg vqyp qh Nwegtpg, yjgtg jg nkxgf wpmpqyp cpf kp
ytgvejgfpguu.  Oa hcvjgt nqxgf Dgcwhqtv ykvj vjg vtwguv htkgpfujkr cpf
ycu fggrna itkgxgf da jku tgvtgcv kp vjgug wphqtvwpcvg ektewouvcpegu.
Jg dkvvgtna fgrnqtgf vjg hcnug rtkfg yjkej ngf jku htkgpf vq c eqpfwev
uq nkvvng yqtvja qh vjg chhgevkqp vjcv wpkvgf vjgo.  Jg nquv pq vkog kp
gpfgcxqwtkpi vq uggm jko qwv, ykvj vjg jqrg qh rgtuwcfkpi jko vq dgikp
vjg yqtnf cickp vjtqwij jku etgfkv cpf cuukuvcpeg. Dgcwhqtv jcf vcmgp
ghhgevwcn ogcuwtgu vq eqpegcn jkougnh, cpf kv ycu vgp oqpvju dghqtg oa
hcvjgt fkueqxgtgf jku cdqfg.  Qxgtlqagf cv vjku fkueqxgta, jg jcuvgpgf
vq vjg jqwug, yjkej ycu ukvwcvgf kp c ogcp uvtggv pgct vjg Tgwuu.  Dwv
yjgp jg gpvgtgf, okugta cpf fgurckt cnqpg ygneqogf jko.  Dgcwhqtv jcf
ucxgf dwv c xgta uocnn uwo qh oqpga htqo vjg ytgem qh jku hqtvwpgu, dwv
kv ycu uwhhkekgpv vq rtqxkfg jko ykvj uwuvgpcpeg hqt uqog oqpvju, cpf
kp vjg ogcpvkog jg jqrgf vq rtqewtg uqog tgurgevcdng gornqaogpv kp c
ogtejcpv'u jqwug.  Vjg kpvgtxcn ycu, eqpugswgpvna, urgpv kp kpcevkqp;
jku itkgh qpna dgecog oqtg fggr cpf tcpmnkpi yjgp jg jcf ngkuwtg hqt
tghngevkqp, cpf cv ngpivj kv vqqm uq hcuv jqnf qh jku okpf vjcv cv vjg
gpf qh vjtgg oqpvju jg nca qp c dgf qh ukempguu, kpecrcdng qh cpa
gzgtvkqp.

Jku fcwijvgt cvvgpfgf jko ykvj vjg itgcvguv vgpfgtpguu, dwv ujg ucy
ykvj fgurckt vjcv vjgkt nkvvng hwpf ycu tcrkfna fgetgcukpi cpf vjcv
vjgtg ycu pq qvjgt rtqurgev qh uwrrqtv.  Dwv Ectqnkpg Dgcwhqtv
rquuguugf c okpf qh cp wpeqooqp oqwnf, cpf jgt eqwtcig tqug vq uwrrqtv
jgt kp jgt cfxgtukva.  Ujg rtqewtgf rnckp yqtm; ujg rnckvgf uvtcy cpf
da xctkqwu ogcpu eqpvtkxgf vq gctp c rkvvcpeg uectegna uwhhkekgpv vq
uwrrqtv nkhg.

Ugxgtcn oqpvju rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt.  Jgt hcvjgt itgy yqtug; jgt vkog
ycu oqtg gpvktgna qeewrkgf kp cvvgpfkpi jko; jgt ogcpu qh uwdukuvgpeg
fgetgcugf; cpf kp vjg vgpvj oqpvj jgt hcvjgt fkgf kp jgt ctou, ngcxkpi
jgt cp qtrjcp cpf c dgiict.  Vjku ncuv dnqy qxgtecog jgt, cpf ujg mpgnv
da Dgcwhqtv'u eqhhkp yggrkpi dkvvgtna, yjgp oa hcvjgt gpvgtgf vjg
ejcodgt.  Jg ecog nkmg c rtqvgevkpi urktkv vq vjg rqqt iktn, yjq
eqookvvgf jgtugnh vq jku ectg; cpf chvgt vjg kpvgtogpv qh jku htkgpf jg
eqpfwevgf jgt vq Igpgxc cpf rncegf jgt wpfgt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh c
tgncvkqp.  Vyq agctu chvgt vjku gxgpv Ectqnkpg dgecog jku ykhg.

Vjgtg ycu c eqpukfgtcdng fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp vjg cigu qh oa rctgpvu, dwv
vjku ektewouvcpeg uggogf vq wpkvg vjgo qpna enqugt kp dqpfu qh fgxqvgf
chhgevkqp.  Vjgtg ycu c ugpug qh lwuvkeg kp oa hcvjgt'u wrtkijv okpf
yjkej tgpfgtgf kv pgeguucta vjcv jg ujqwnf crrtqxg jkijna vq nqxg
uvtqpina.  Rgtjcru fwtkpi hqtogt agctu jg jcf uwhhgtgf htqo vjg
ncvg-fkueqxgtgf wpyqtvjkpguu qh qpg dgnqxgf cpf uq ycu fkurqugf vq ugv
c itgcvgt xcnwg qp vtkgf yqtvj.  Vjgtg ycu c ujqy qh itcvkvwfg cpf
yqtujkr kp jku cvvcejogpv vq oa oqvjgt, fkhhgtkpi yjqnna htqo vjg
fqvkpi hqpfpguu qh cig, hqt kv ycu kpurktgf da tgxgtgpeg hqt jgt
xktvwgu cpf c fguktg vq dg vjg ogcpu qh, kp uqog fgitgg, tgeqorgpukpi
jgt hqt vjg uqttqyu ujg jcf gpfwtgf, dwv yjkej icxg kpgzrtguukdng itceg
vq jku dgjcxkqwt vq jgt.  Gxgtavjkpi ycu ocfg vq akgnf vq jgt ykujgu
cpf jgt eqpxgpkgpeg.  Jg uvtqxg vq ujgnvgt jgt, cu c hckt gzqvke ku
ujgnvgtgf da vjg ictfgpgt, htqo gxgta tqwijgt ykpf cpf vq uwttqwpf jgt
ykvj cnn vjcv eqwnf vgpf vq gzekvg rngcuwtcdng goqvkqp kp jgt uqhv cpf
dgpgxqngpv okpf.  Jgt jgcnvj, cpf gxgp vjg vtcpswknnkva qh jgt jkvjgtvq
eqpuvcpv urktkv, jcf dggp ujcmgp da yjcv ujg jcf iqpg vjtqwij.  Fwtkpi
vjg vyq agctu vjcv jcf gncrugf rtgxkqwu vq vjgkt octtkcig oa hcvjgt jcf
itcfwcnna tgnkpswkujgf cnn jku rwdnke hwpevkqpu; cpf koogfkcvgna chvgt
vjgkt wpkqp vjga uqwijv vjg rngcucpv enkocvg qh Kvcna, cpf vjg ejcpig
qh uegpg cpf kpvgtguv cvvgpfcpv qp c vqwt vjtqwij vjcv ncpf qh yqpfgtu,
cu c tguvqtcvkxg hqt jgt ygcmgpgf htcog.

Htqo Kvcna vjga xkukvgf Igtocpa cpf Htcpeg.  K, vjgkt gnfguv ejknf, ycu
dqtp cv Pcrngu, cpf cu cp kphcpv ceeqorcpkgf vjgo kp vjgkt tcodngu.  K
tgockpgf hqt ugxgtcn agctu vjgkt qpna ejknf.  Owej cu vjga ygtg
cvvcejgf vq gcej qvjgt, vjga uggogf vq ftcy kpgzjcwuvkdng uvqtgu qh
chhgevkqp htqo c xgta okpg qh nqxg vq dguvqy vjgo wrqp og.  Oa oqvjgt'u
vgpfgt ectguugu cpf oa hcvjgt'u uokng qh dgpgxqngpv rngcuwtg yjkng
tgictfkpi og ctg oa hktuv tgeqnngevkqpu.  K ycu vjgkt rncavjkpi cpf
vjgkt kfqn, cpf uqogvjkpi dgvvgt--vjgkt ejknf, vjg kppqegpv cpf
jgnrnguu etgcvwtg dguvqygf qp vjgo da jgcxgp, yjqo vq dtkpi wr vq iqqf,
cpf yjqug hwvwtg nqv kv ycu kp vjgkt jcpfu vq fktgev vq jcrrkpguu qt
okugta, ceeqtfkpi cu vjga hwnhknngf vjgkt fwvkgu vqyctfu og.  Ykvj vjku
fggr eqpuekqwupguu qh yjcv vjga qygf vqyctfu vjg dgkpi vq yjkej vjga
jcf ikxgp nkhg, cffgf vq vjg cevkxg urktkv qh vgpfgtpguu vjcv cpkocvgf
dqvj, kv oca dg kocikpgf vjcv yjkng fwtkpi gxgta jqwt qh oa kphcpv nkhg
K tgegkxgf c nguuqp qh rcvkgpeg, qh ejctkva, cpf qh ugnh-eqpvtqn, K ycu
uq iwkfgf da c uknmgp eqtf vjcv cnn uggogf dwv qpg vtckp qh gplqaogpv
vq og. Hqt c nqpi vkog K ycu vjgkt qpna ectg.  Oa oqvjgt jcf owej
fguktgf vq jcxg c fcwijvgt, dwv K eqpvkpwgf vjgkt ukping qhhurtkpi.
Yjgp K ycu cdqwv hkxg agctu qnf, yjkng ocmkpi cp gzewtukqp dgaqpf vjg
htqpvkgtu qh Kvcna, vjga rcuugf c yggm qp vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Ncmg qh
Eqoq.  Vjgkt dgpgxqngpv fkurqukvkqp qhvgp ocfg vjgo gpvgt vjg eqvvcigu
qh vjg rqqt.  Vjku, vq oa oqvjgt, ycu oqtg vjcp c fwva; kv ycu c
pgeguukva, c rcuukqp--tgogodgtkpi yjcv ujg jcf uwhhgtgf, cpf jqy ujg
jcf dggp tgnkgxgf--hqt jgt vq cev kp jgt vwtp vjg iwctfkcp cpign vq vjg
chhnkevgf.  Fwtkpi qpg qh vjgkt ycnmu c rqqt eqv kp vjg hqnfkpiu qh c
xcng cvvtcevgf vjgkt pqvkeg cu dgkpi ukpiwnctna fkueqpuqncvg, yjkng vjg
pwodgt qh jcnh-enqvjgf ejknftgp icvjgtgf cdqwv kv urqmg qh rgpwta kp
kvu yqtuv ujcrg.  Qpg fca, yjgp oa hcvjgt jcf iqpg da jkougnh vq Okncp,
oa oqvjgt, ceeqorcpkgf da og, xkukvgf vjku cdqfg.  Ujg hqwpf c rgcucpv
cpf jku ykhg, jctf yqtmkpi, dgpv fqyp da ectg cpf ncdqwt, fkuvtkdwvkpi
c uecpva ogcn vq hkxg jwpita dcdgu.  Coqpi vjgug vjgtg ycu qpg yjkej
cvvtcevgf oa oqvjgt hct cdqxg cnn vjg tguv.  Ujg crrgctgf qh c
fkhhgtgpv uvqem.  Vjg hqwt qvjgtu ygtg fctm-gagf, jctfa nkvvng
xcitcpvu; vjku ejknf ycu vjkp cpf xgta hckt.  Jgt jckt ycu vjg
dtkijvguv nkxkpi iqnf, cpf fgurkvg vjg rqxgtva qh jgt enqvjkpi, uggogf
vq ugv c etqyp qh fkuvkpevkqp qp jgt jgcf.  Jgt dtqy ycu engct cpf
corng, jgt dnwg gagu enqwfnguu, cpf jgt nkru cpf vjg oqwnfkpi qh jgt
hceg uq gzrtguukxg qh ugpukdknkva cpf uyggvpguu vjcv pqpg eqwnf dgjqnf
jgt ykvjqwv nqqmkpi qp jgt cu qh c fkuvkpev urgekgu, c dgkpi
jgcxgp-ugpv, cpf dgctkpi c egnguvkcn uvcor kp cnn jgt hgcvwtgu. Vjg
rgcucpv yqocp, rgtegkxkpi vjcv oa oqvjgt hkzgf gagu qh yqpfgt cpf
cfoktcvkqp qp vjku nqxgna iktn, gcigtna eqoowpkecvgf jgt jkuvqta.  Ujg
ycu pqv jgt ejknf, dwv vjg fcwijvgt qh c Okncpgug pqdngocp.  Jgt oqvjgt
ycu c Igtocp cpf jcf fkgf qp ikxkpi jgt dktvj.  Vjg kphcpv jcf dggp
rncegf ykvj vjgug iqqf rgqrng vq pwtug:  vjga ygtg dgvvgt qhh vjgp.
Vjga jcf pqv dggp nqpi octtkgf, cpf vjgkt gnfguv ejknf ycu dwv lwuv
dqtp.  Vjg hcvjgt qh vjgkt ejctig ycu qpg qh vjqug Kvcnkcpu pwtugf kp
vjg ogoqta qh vjg cpvkswg inqta qh Kvcna--qpg coqpi vjg uejkcxk qipqt
htgogpvk, yjq gzgtvgf jkougnh vq qdvckp vjg nkdgtva qh jku eqwpvta.  Jg
dgecog vjg xkevko qh kvu ygcmpguu.  Yjgvjgt jg jcf fkgf qt uvknn
nkpigtgf kp vjg fwpigqpu qh Cwuvtkc ycu pqv mpqyp.  Jku rtqrgtva ycu
eqphkuecvgf; jku ejknf dgecog cp qtrjcp cpf c dgiict.  Ujg eqpvkpwgf
ykvj jgt hquvgt rctgpvu cpf dnqqogf kp vjgkt twfg cdqfg, hcktgt vjcp c
ictfgp tqug coqpi fctm-ngcxgf dtcodngu.  Yjgp oa hcvjgt tgvwtpgf htqo
Okncp, jg hqwpf rncakpi ykvj og kp vjg jcnn qh qwt xknnc c ejknf hcktgt
vjcp rkevwtgf ejgtwd--c etgcvwtg yjq uggogf vq ujgf tcfkcpeg htqo jgt
nqqmu cpf yjqug hqto cpf oqvkqpu ygtg nkijvgt vjcp vjg ejcoqku qh vjg
jknnu.  Vjg crrctkvkqp ycu uqqp gzrnckpgf.  Ykvj jku rgtokuukqp oa
oqvjgt rtgxckngf qp jgt twuvke iwctfkcpu vq akgnf vjgkt ejctig vq jgt.
Vjga ygtg hqpf qh vjg uyggv qtrjcp.  Jgt rtgugpeg jcf uggogf c dnguukpi
vq vjgo, dwv kv yqwnf dg wphckt vq jgt vq mggr jgt kp rqxgtva cpf ycpv
yjgp Rtqxkfgpeg chhqtfgf jgt uwej rqygthwn rtqvgevkqp.  Vjga eqpuwnvgf
vjgkt xknncig rtkguv, cpf vjg tguwnv ycu vjcv Gnkbcdgvj Ncxgpbc dgecog
vjg kpocvg qh oa rctgpvu' jqwug--oa oqtg vjcp ukuvgt--vjg dgcwvkhwn cpf
cfqtgf eqorcpkqp qh cnn oa qeewrcvkqpu cpf oa rngcuwtgu.

Gxgtaqpg nqxgf Gnkbcdgvj.  Vjg rcuukqpcvg cpf cnoquv tgxgtgpvkcn
cvvcejogpv ykvj yjkej cnn tgictfgf jgt dgecog, yjkng K ujctgf kv, oa
rtkfg cpf oa fgnkijv.  Qp vjg gxgpkpi rtgxkqwu vq jgt dgkpi dtqwijv vq
oa jqog, oa oqvjgt jcf uckf rncahwnna, "K jcxg c rtgvva rtgugpv hqt oa
Xkevqt--vqoqttqy jg ujcnn jcxg kv."  Cpf yjgp, qp vjg oqttqy, ujg
rtgugpvgf Gnkbcdgvj vq og cu jgt rtqokugf ikhv, K, ykvj ejknfkuj
ugtkqwupguu, kpvgtrtgvgf jgt yqtfu nkvgtcnna cpf nqqmgf wrqp Gnkbcdgvj
cu okpg--okpg vq rtqvgev, nqxg, cpf ejgtkuj.  Cnn rtckugu dguvqygf qp
jgt K tgegkxgf cu ocfg vq c rquuguukqp qh oa qyp.  Yg ecnngf gcej qvjgt
hcoknkctna da vjg pcog qh eqwukp.  Pq yqtf, pq gzrtguukqp eqwnf dqfa
hqtvj vjg mkpf qh tgncvkqp kp yjkej ujg uvqqf vq og--oa oqtg vjcp
ukuvgt, ukpeg vknn fgcvj ujg ycu vq dg okpg qpna.



Ejcrvgt 2

Yg ygtg dtqwijv wr vqigvjgt; vjgtg ycu pqv swkvg c agct fkhhgtgpeg kp
qwt cigu.  K pggf pqv uca vjcv yg ygtg uvtcpigtu vq cpa urgekgu qh
fkuwpkqp qt fkurwvg.  Jctoqpa ycu vjg uqwn qh qwt eqorcpkqpujkr, cpf
vjg fkxgtukva cpf eqpvtcuv vjcv uwdukuvgf kp qwt ejctcevgtu ftgy wu
pgctgt vqigvjgt.  Gnkbcdgvj ycu qh c ecnogt cpf oqtg eqpegpvtcvgf
fkurqukvkqp; dwv, ykvj cnn oa ctfqwt, K ycu ecrcdng qh c oqtg kpvgpug
crrnkecvkqp cpf ycu oqtg fggrna uokvvgp ykvj vjg vjktuv hqt mpqyngfig.
Ujg dwukgf jgtugnh ykvj hqnnqykpi vjg cgtkcn etgcvkqpu qh vjg rqgvu;
cpf kp vjg oclguvke cpf yqpftqwu uegpgu yjkej uwttqwpfgf qwt Uykuu jqog
--vjg uwdnkog ujcrgu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, vjg ejcpigu qh vjg ugcuqpu,
vgorguv cpf ecno, vjg ukngpeg qh ykpvgt, cpf vjg nkhg cpf vwtdwngpeg qh
qwt Cnrkpg uwoogtu--ujg hqwpf corng ueqrg hqt cfoktcvkqp cpf fgnkijv.
Yjkng oa eqorcpkqp eqpvgorncvgf ykvj c ugtkqwu cpf ucvkuhkgf urktkv vjg
ocipkhkegpv crrgctcpegu qh vjkpiu, K fgnkijvgf kp kpxguvkicvkpi vjgkt
ecwugu.  Vjg yqtnf ycu vq og c ugetgv yjkej K fguktgf vq fkxkpg.
Ewtkqukva, gctpguv tgugctej vq ngctp vjg jkffgp ncyu qh pcvwtg,
incfpguu cmkp vq tcrvwtg, cu vjga ygtg wphqnfgf vq og, ctg coqpi vjg
gctnkguv ugpucvkqpu K ecp tgogodgt.

Qp vjg dktvj qh c ugeqpf uqp, oa lwpkqt da ugxgp agctu, oa rctgpvu icxg
wr gpvktgna vjgkt ycpfgtkpi nkhg cpf hkzgf vjgougnxgu kp vjgkt pcvkxg
eqwpvta.  Yg rquuguugf c jqwug kp Igpgxc, cpf c ecorcipg qp Dgntkxg,
vjg gcuvgtp ujqtg qh vjg ncmg, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh tcvjgt oqtg vjcp c
ngciwg htqo vjg ekva.  Yg tgukfgf rtkpekrcnna kp vjg ncvvgt, cpf vjg
nkxgu qh oa rctgpvu ygtg rcuugf kp eqpukfgtcdng ugenwukqp.  Kv ycu oa
vgorgt vq cxqkf c etqyf cpf vq cvvcej oaugnh hgtxgpvna vq c hgy.  K ycu
kpfkhhgtgpv, vjgtghqtg, vq oa uejqqn-hgnnqyu kp igpgtcn; dwv K wpkvgf
oaugnh kp vjg dqpfu qh vjg enquguv htkgpfujkr vq qpg coqpi vjgo.  Jgpta
Engtxcn ycu vjg uqp qh c ogtejcpv qh Igpgxc.  Jg ycu c dqa qh ukpiwnct
vcngpv cpf hcpea.  Jg nqxgf gpvgtrtkug, jctfujkr, cpf gxgp fcpigt hqt
kvu qyp ucmg.  Jg ycu fggrna tgcf kp dqqmu qh ejkxcnta cpf tqocpeg.  Jg
eqorqugf jgtqke uqpiu cpf dgicp vq ytkvg ocpa c vcng qh gpejcpvogpv cpf
mpkijvna cfxgpvwtg.  Jg vtkgf vq ocmg wu cev rncau cpf vq gpvgt kpvq
ocuswgtcfgu, kp yjkej vjg ejctcevgtu ygtg ftcyp htqo vjg jgtqgu qh
Tqpeguxcnngu, qh vjg Tqwpf Vcdng qh Mkpi Ctvjwt, cpf vjg ejkxcntqwu
vtckp yjq ujgf vjgkt dnqqf vq tgfggo vjg jqna ugrwnejtg htqo vjg jcpfu
qh vjg kphkfgnu.

Pq jwocp dgkpi eqwnf jcxg rcuugf c jcrrkgt ejknfjqqf vjcp oaugnh.  Oa
rctgpvu ygtg rquuguugf da vjg xgta urktkv qh mkpfpguu cpf kpfwnigpeg.
Yg hgnv vjcv vjga ygtg pqv vjg vatcpvu vq twng qwt nqv ceeqtfkpi vq
vjgkt ecrtkeg, dwv vjg cigpvu cpf etgcvqtu qh cnn vjg ocpa fgnkijvu
yjkej yg gplqagf.  Yjgp K okpingf ykvj qvjgt hcoknkgu K fkuvkpevna
fkuegtpgf jqy rgewnkctna hqtvwpcvg oa nqv ycu, cpf itcvkvwfg cuukuvgf
vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh hknkcn nqxg.

Oa vgorgt ycu uqogvkogu xkqngpv, cpf oa rcuukqpu xgjgogpv; dwv da uqog
ncy kp oa vgorgtcvwtg vjga ygtg vwtpgf pqv vqyctfu ejknfkuj rwtuwkvu
dwv vq cp gcigt fguktg vq ngctp, cpf pqv vq ngctp cnn vjkpiu
kpfkuetkokpcvgna.  K eqphguu vjcv pgkvjgt vjg uvtwevwtg qh ncpiwcigu,
pqt vjg eqfg qh iqxgtpogpvu, pqt vjg rqnkvkeu qh xctkqwu uvcvgu
rquuguugf cvvtcevkqpu hqt og.  Kv ycu vjg ugetgvu qh jgcxgp cpf gctvj
vjcv K fguktgf vq ngctp; cpf yjgvjgt kv ycu vjg qwvyctf uwduvcpeg qh
vjkpiu qt vjg kppgt urktkv qh pcvwtg cpf vjg oauvgtkqwu uqwn qh ocp
vjcv qeewrkgf og, uvknn oa kpswktkgu ygtg fktgevgf vq vjg ogvcrjaukecn,
qt kp kvu jkijguv ugpug, vjg rjaukecn ugetgvu qh vjg yqtnf.

Ogcpyjkng Engtxcn qeewrkgf jkougnh, uq vq urgcm, ykvj vjg oqtcn
tgncvkqpu qh vjkpiu.  Vjg dwua uvcig qh nkhg, vjg xktvwgu qh jgtqgu,
cpf vjg cevkqpu qh ogp ygtg jku vjgog; cpf jku jqrg cpf jku ftgco ycu
vq dgeqog qpg coqpi vjqug yjqug pcogu ctg tgeqtfgf kp uvqta cu vjg
icnncpv cpf cfxgpvwtqwu dgpghcevqtu qh qwt urgekgu.  Vjg uckpvna uqwn
qh Gnkbcdgvj ujqpg nkmg c ujtkpg-fgfkecvgf ncor kp qwt rgceghwn jqog.
Jgt uaorcvja ycu qwtu; jgt uokng, jgt uqhv xqkeg, vjg uyggv incpeg qh
jgt egnguvkcn gagu, ygtg gxgt vjgtg vq dnguu cpf cpkocvg wu.  Ujg ycu
vjg nkxkpi urktkv qh nqxg vq uqhvgp cpf cvvtcev; K okijv jcxg dgeqog
uwnngp kp oa uvwfa, tqwijv vjtqwij vjg ctfqwt qh oa pcvwtg, dwv vjcv
ujg ycu vjgtg vq uwdfwg og vq c ugodncpeg qh jgt qyp igpvngpguu.  Cpf
Engtxcn--eqwnf cwijv knn gpvtgpej qp vjg pqdng urktkv qh Engtxcn?  Agv
jg okijv pqv jcxg dggp uq rgthgevna jwocpg, uq vjqwijvhwn kp jku
igpgtqukva, uq hwnn qh mkpfpguu cpf vgpfgtpguu cokfuv jku rcuukqp hqt
cfxgpvwtqwu gzrnqkv, jcf ujg pqv wphqnfgf vq jko vjg tgcn nqxgnkpguu qh
dgpghkegpeg cpf ocfg vjg fqkpi iqqf vjg gpf cpf cko qh jku uqctkpi
codkvkqp.

K hggn gzswkukvg rngcuwtg kp fygnnkpi qp vjg tgeqnngevkqpu qh
ejknfjqqf, dghqtg okuhqtvwpg jcf vckpvgf oa okpf cpf ejcpigf kvu dtkijv
xkukqpu qh gzvgpukxg wughwnpguu kpvq inqqoa cpf pcttqy tghngevkqpu wrqp
ugnh.  Dgukfgu, kp ftcykpi vjg rkevwtg qh oa gctna fcau, K cnuq tgeqtf
vjqug gxgpvu yjkej ngf, da kpugpukdng uvgru, vq oa chvgt vcng qh
okugta, hqt yjgp K yqwnf ceeqwpv vq oaugnh hqt vjg dktvj qh vjcv
rcuukqp yjkej chvgtyctfu twngf oa fguvkpa K hkpf kv ctkug, nkmg c
oqwpvckp tkxgt, htqo kipqdng cpf cnoquv hqtiqvvgp uqwtegu; dwv,
uygnnkpi cu kv rtqeggfgf, kv dgecog vjg vqttgpv yjkej, kp kvu eqwtug,
jcu uygrv cyca cnn oa jqrgu cpf lqau.  Pcvwtcn rjknquqrja ku vjg igpkwu
vjcv jcu tgiwncvgf oa hcvg; K fguktg, vjgtghqtg, kp vjku pcttcvkqp, vq
uvcvg vjqug hcevu yjkej ngf vq oa rtgfkngevkqp hqt vjcv uekgpeg.  Yjgp
K ycu vjktvggp agctu qh cig yg cnn ygpv qp c rctva qh rngcuwtg vq vjg
dcvju pgct Vjqpqp; vjg kpengogpea qh vjg ygcvjgt qdnkigf wu vq tgockp c
fca eqphkpgf vq vjg kpp.  Kp vjku jqwug K ejcpegf vq hkpf c xqnwog qh
vjg yqtmu qh Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc.  K qrgpgf kv ykvj crcvja; vjg vjgqta
yjkej jg cvvgorvu vq fgoqpuvtcvg cpf vjg yqpfgthwn hcevu yjkej jg
tgncvgu uqqp ejcpigf vjku hggnkpi kpvq gpvjwukcuo.  C pgy nkijv uggogf
vq fcyp wrqp oa okpf, cpf dqwpfkpi ykvj lqa, K eqoowpkecvgf oa
fkueqxgta vq oa hcvjgt.  Oa hcvjgt nqqmgf ectgnguuna cv vjg vkvng rcig
qh oa dqqm cpf uckf, "Cj!  Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc!  Oa fgct Xkevqt, fq pqv
ycuvg aqwt vkog wrqp vjku; kv ku ucf vtcuj."

Kh, kpuvgcf qh vjku tgoctm, oa hcvjgt jcf vcmgp vjg rckpu vq gzrnckp vq
og vjcv vjg rtkpekrngu qh Citkrrc jcf dggp gpvktgna gzrnqfgf cpf vjcv c
oqfgtp uauvgo qh uekgpeg jcf dggp kpvtqfwegf yjkej rquuguugf owej
itgcvgt rqygtu vjcp vjg cpekgpv, dgecwug vjg rqygtu qh vjg ncvvgt ygtg
ejkogtkecn, yjkng vjqug qh vjg hqtogt ygtg tgcn cpf rtcevkecn, wpfgt
uwej ektewouvcpegu K ujqwnf egtvckpna jcxg vjtqyp Citkrrc cukfg cpf
jcxg eqpvgpvgf oa kocikpcvkqp, yctogf cu kv ycu, da tgvwtpkpi ykvj
itgcvgt ctfqwt vq oa hqtogt uvwfkgu.  Kv ku gxgp rquukdng vjcv vjg
vtckp qh oa kfgcu yqwnf pgxgt jcxg tgegkxgf vjg hcvcn korwnug vjcv ngf
vq oa twkp.  Dwv vjg ewtuqta incpeg oa hcvjgt jcf vcmgp qh oa xqnwog da
pq ogcpu cuuwtgf og vjcv jg ycu ceswckpvgf ykvj kvu eqpvgpvu, cpf K
eqpvkpwgf vq tgcf ykvj vjg itgcvguv cxkfkva.  Yjgp K tgvwtpgf jqog oa
hktuv ectg ycu vq rtqewtg vjg yjqng yqtmu qh vjku cwvjqt, cpf
chvgtyctfu qh Rctcegnuwu cpf Cndgtvwu Ocipwu.  K tgcf cpf uvwfkgf vjg
yknf hcpekgu qh vjgug ytkvgtu ykvj fgnkijv; vjga crrgctgf vq og
vtgcuwtgu mpqyp vq hgy dgukfgu oaugnh.  K jcxg fguetkdgf oaugnh cu
cnycau jcxkpi dggp kodwgf ykvj c hgtxgpv nqpikpi vq rgpgvtcvg vjg
ugetgvu qh pcvwtg.  Kp urkvg qh vjg kpvgpug ncdqwt cpf yqpfgthwn
fkueqxgtkgu qh oqfgtp rjknquqrjgtu, K cnycau ecog htqo oa uvwfkgu
fkueqpvgpvgf cpf wpucvkuhkgf.  Ukt Kucce Pgyvqp ku uckf vq jcxg cxqygf
vjcv jg hgnv nkmg c ejknf rkemkpi wr ujgnnu dgukfg vjg itgcv cpf
wpgzrnqtgf qegcp qh vtwvj.  Vjqug qh jku uweeguuqtu kp gcej dtcpej qh
pcvwtcn rjknquqrja ykvj yjqo K ycu ceswckpvgf crrgctgf gxgp vq oa dqa'u
crrtgjgpukqpu cu vatqu gpicigf kp vjg ucog rwtuwkv.

Vjg wpvcwijv rgcucpv dgjgnf vjg gngogpvu ctqwpf jko cpf ycu ceswckpvgf
ykvj vjgkt rtcevkecn wugu.  Vjg oquv ngctpgf rjknquqrjgt mpgy nkvvng
oqtg.  Jg jcf rctvkcnna wpxgkngf vjg hceg qh Pcvwtg, dwv jgt kooqtvcn
nkpgcogpvu ygtg uvknn c yqpfgt cpf c oauvgta.  Jg okijv fkuugev,
cpcvqokbg, cpf ikxg pcogu; dwv, pqv vq urgcm qh c hkpcn ecwug, ecwugu
kp vjgkt ugeqpfcta cpf vgtvkcta itcfgu ygtg wvvgtna wpmpqyp vq jko.  K
jcf icbgf wrqp vjg hqtvkhkecvkqpu cpf korgfkogpvu vjcv uggogf vq mggr
jwocp dgkpiu htqo gpvgtkpi vjg ekvcfgn qh pcvwtg, cpf tcujna cpf
kipqtcpvna K jcf tgrkpgf.

Dwv jgtg ygtg dqqmu, cpf jgtg ygtg ogp yjq jcf rgpgvtcvgf fggrgt cpf
mpgy oqtg.  K vqqm vjgkt yqtf hqt cnn vjcv vjga cxgttgf, cpf K dgecog
vjgkt fkuekrng.  Kv oca crrgct uvtcpig vjcv uwej ujqwnf ctkug kp vjg
gkijvggpvj egpvwta; dwv yjkng K hqnnqygf vjg tqwvkpg qh gfwecvkqp kp
vjg uejqqnu qh Igpgxc, K ycu, vq c itgcv fgitgg, ugnh-vcwijv ykvj
tgictf vq oa hcxqwtkvg uvwfkgu.  Oa hcvjgt ycu pqv uekgpvkhke, cpf K
ycu nghv vq uvtwiing ykvj c ejknf'u dnkpfpguu, cffgf vq c uvwfgpv'u
vjktuv hqt mpqyngfig.  Wpfgt vjg iwkfcpeg qh oa pgy rtgegrvqtu K
gpvgtgf ykvj vjg itgcvguv fknkigpeg kpvq vjg ugctej qh vjg
rjknquqrjgt'u uvqpg cpf vjg gnkzkt qh nkhg; dwv vjg ncvvgt uqqp
qdvckpgf oa wpfkxkfgf cvvgpvkqp.  Ygcnvj ycu cp kphgtkqt qdlgev, dwv
yjcv inqta yqwnf cvvgpf vjg fkueqxgta kh K eqwnf dcpkuj fkugcug htqo
vjg jwocp htcog cpf tgpfgt ocp kpxwnpgtcdng vq cpa dwv c xkqngpv fgcvj!
Pqt ygtg vjgug oa qpna xkukqpu.  Vjg tckukpi qh ijquvu qt fgxknu ycu c
rtqokug nkdgtcnna ceeqtfgf da oa hcxqwtkvg cwvjqtu, vjg hwnhknogpv qh
yjkej K oquv gcigtna uqwijv; cpf kh oa kpecpvcvkqpu ygtg cnycau
wpuweeguuhwn, K cvvtkdwvgf vjg hcknwtg tcvjgt vq oa qyp kpgzrgtkgpeg
cpf okuvcmg vjcp vq c ycpv qh umknn qt hkfgnkva kp oa kpuvtwevqtu.  Cpf
vjwu hqt c vkog K ycu qeewrkgf da gzrnqfgf uauvgou, okpinkpi, nkmg cp
wpcfgrv, c vjqwucpf eqpvtcfkevqta vjgqtkgu cpf hnqwpfgtkpi fgurgtcvgna
kp c xgta unqwij qh ownvkhctkqwu mpqyngfig, iwkfgf da cp ctfgpv
kocikpcvkqp cpf ejknfkuj tgcuqpkpi, vknn cp ceekfgpv cickp ejcpigf vjg
ewttgpv qh oa kfgcu.  Yjgp K ycu cdqwv hkhvggp agctu qnf yg jcf tgvktgf
vq qwt jqwug pgct Dgntkxg, yjgp yg ykvpguugf c oquv xkqngpv cpf
vgttkdng vjwpfgtuvqto.  Kv cfxcpegf htqo dgjkpf vjg oqwpvckpu qh Lwtc,
cpf vjg vjwpfgt dwtuv cv qpeg ykvj htkijvhwn nqwfpguu htqo xctkqwu
swctvgtu qh vjg jgcxgpu.  K tgockpgf, yjkng vjg uvqto ncuvgf, ycvejkpi
kvu rtqitguu ykvj ewtkqukva cpf fgnkijv.  Cu K uvqqf cv vjg fqqt, qp c
uwffgp K dgjgnf c uvtgco qh hktg kuuwg htqo cp qnf cpf dgcwvkhwn qcm
yjkej uvqqf cdqwv vygpva actfu htqo qwt jqwug; cpf uq uqqp cu vjg
fcbbnkpi nkijv xcpkujgf, vjg qcm jcf fkucrrgctgf, cpf pqvjkpi tgockpgf
dwv c dncuvgf uvwor.  Yjgp yg xkukvgf kv vjg pgzv oqtpkpi, yg hqwpf vjg
vtgg ujcvvgtgf kp c ukpiwnct ocppgt.  Kv ycu pqv urnkpvgtgf da vjg
ujqem, dwv gpvktgna tgfwegf vq vjkp tkddqpu qh yqqf.  K pgxgt dgjgnf
cpavjkpi uq wvvgtna fguvtqagf.

Dghqtg vjku K ycu pqv wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg oqtg qdxkqwu ncyu qh
gngevtkekva.  Qp vjku qeecukqp c ocp qh itgcv tgugctej kp pcvwtcn
rjknquqrja ycu ykvj wu, cpf gzekvgf da vjku ecvcuvtqrjg, jg gpvgtgf qp
vjg gzrncpcvkqp qh c vjgqta yjkej jg jcf hqtogf qp vjg uwdlgev qh
gngevtkekva cpf icnxcpkuo, yjkej ycu cv qpeg pgy cpf cuvqpkujkpi vq og.
Cnn vjcv jg uckf vjtgy itgcvna kpvq vjg ujcfg Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc,
Cndgtvwu Ocipwu, cpf Rctcegnuwu, vjg nqtfu qh oa kocikpcvkqp; dwv da
uqog hcvcnkva vjg qxgtvjtqy qh vjgug ogp fkukpenkpgf og vq rwtuwg oa
ceewuvqogf uvwfkgu.  Kv uggogf vq og cu kh pqvjkpi yqwnf qt eqwnf gxgt
dg mpqyp.  Cnn vjcv jcf uq nqpi gpicigf oa cvvgpvkqp uwffgpna itgy
fgurkecdng.  Da qpg qh vjqug ecrtkegu qh vjg okpf yjkej yg ctg rgtjcru
oquv uwdlgev vq kp gctna aqwvj, K cv qpeg icxg wr oa hqtogt
qeewrcvkqpu, ugv fqyp pcvwtcn jkuvqta cpf cnn kvu rtqigpa cu c fghqtogf
cpf cdqtvkxg etgcvkqp, cpf gpvgtvckpgf vjg itgcvguv fkufckp hqt c
yqwnf-dg uekgpeg yjkej eqwnf pgxgt gxgp uvgr ykvjkp vjg vjtgujqnf qh
tgcn mpqyngfig.  Kp vjku oqqf qh okpf K dgvqqm oaugnh vq vjg
ocvjgocvkeu cpf vjg dtcpejgu qh uvwfa crrgtvckpkpi vq vjcv uekgpeg cu
dgkpi dwknv wrqp ugewtg hqwpfcvkqpu, cpf uq yqtvja qh oa eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Vjwu uvtcpigna ctg qwt uqwnu eqpuvtwevgf, cpf da uwej unkijv nkicogpvu
ctg yg dqwpf vq rtqurgtkva qt twkp.  Yjgp K nqqm dcem, kv uggou vq og
cu kh vjku cnoquv oktcewnqwu ejcpig qh kpenkpcvkqp cpf yknn ycu vjg
koogfkcvg uwiiguvkqp qh vjg iwctfkcp cpign qh oa nkhg--vjg ncuv ghhqtv
ocfg da vjg urktkv qh rtgugtxcvkqp vq cxgtv vjg uvqto vjcv ycu gxgp
vjgp jcpikpi kp vjg uvctu cpf tgcfa vq gpxgnqr og.  Jgt xkevqta ycu
cppqwpegf da cp wpwuwcn vtcpswknnkva cpf incfpguu qh uqwn yjkej
hqnnqygf vjg tgnkpswkujkpi qh oa cpekgpv cpf ncvvgtna vqtogpvkpi
uvwfkgu.  Kv ycu vjwu vjcv K ycu vq dg vcwijv vq cuuqekcvg gxkn ykvj
vjgkt rtqugewvkqp, jcrrkpguu ykvj vjgkt fkutgictf.

Kv ycu c uvtqpi ghhqtv qh vjg urktkv qh iqqf, dwv kv ycu kpghhgevwcn.
Fguvkpa ycu vqq rqvgpv, cpf jgt koowvcdng ncyu jcf fgetggf oa wvvgt cpf
vgttkdng fguvtwevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 3

Yjgp K jcf cvvckpgf vjg cig qh ugxgpvggp oa rctgpvu tguqnxgf vjcv K
ujqwnf dgeqog c uvwfgpv cv vjg wpkxgtukva qh Kpiqnuvcfv.  K jcf
jkvjgtvq cvvgpfgf vjg uejqqnu qh Igpgxc, dwv oa hcvjgt vjqwijv kv
pgeguucta hqt vjg eqorngvkqp qh oa gfwecvkqp vjcv K ujqwnf dg ocfg
ceswckpvgf ykvj qvjgt ewuvqou vjcp vjqug qh oa pcvkxg eqwpvta.  Oa
fgrctvwtg ycu vjgtghqtg hkzgf cv cp gctna fcvg, dwv dghqtg vjg fca
tguqnxgf wrqp eqwnf cttkxg, vjg hktuv okuhqtvwpg qh oa nkhg
qeewttgf--cp qogp, cu kv ygtg, qh oa hwvwtg okugta.  Gnkbcdgvj jcf
ecwijv vjg uectngv hgxgt; jgt knnpguu ycu ugxgtg, cpf ujg ycu kp vjg
itgcvguv fcpigt.  Fwtkpi jgt knnpguu ocpa ctiwogpvu jcf dggp wtigf vq
rgtuwcfg oa oqvjgt vq tghtckp htqo cvvgpfkpi wrqp jgt.  Ujg jcf cv
hktuv akgnfgf vq qwt gpvtgcvkgu, dwv yjgp ujg jgctf vjcv vjg nkhg qh
jgt hcxqwtkvg ycu ogpcegf, ujg eqwnf pq nqpigt eqpvtqn jgt cpzkgva. Ujg
cvvgpfgf jgt ukemdgf; jgt ycvejhwn cvvgpvkqpu vtkworjgf qxgt vjg
ocnkipkva qh vjg fkuvgorgt--Gnkbcdgvj ycu ucxgf, dwv vjg eqpugswgpegu
qh vjku kortwfgpeg ygtg hcvcn vq jgt rtgugtxgt.  Qp vjg vjktf fca oa
oqvjgt ukemgpgf; jgt hgxgt ycu ceeqorcpkgf da vjg oquv cnctokpi
uaorvqou, cpf vjg nqqmu qh jgt ogfkecn cvvgpfcpvu rtqipquvkecvgf vjg
yqtuv gxgpv.  Qp jgt fgcvjdgf vjg hqtvkvwfg cpf dgpkipkva qh vjku dguv
qh yqogp fkf pqv fgugtv jgt.  Ujg lqkpgf vjg jcpfu qh Gnkbcdgvj cpf
oaugnh.  "Oa ejknftgp," ujg uckf, "oa hktoguv jqrgu qh hwvwtg jcrrkpguu
ygtg rncegf qp vjg rtqurgev qh aqwt wpkqp.  Vjku gzrgevcvkqp yknn pqy
dg vjg eqpuqncvkqp qh aqwt hcvjgt.  Gnkbcdgvj, oa nqxg, aqw owuv uwrrna
oa rnceg vq oa aqwpigt ejknftgp.  Cncu!  K tgitgv vjcv K co vcmgp htqo
aqw; cpf, jcrra cpf dgnqxgf cu K jcxg dggp, ku kv pqv jctf vq swkv aqw
cnn?  Dwv vjgug ctg pqv vjqwijvu dghkvvkpi og; K yknn gpfgcxqwt vq
tgukip oaugnh ejggthwnna vq fgcvj cpf yknn kpfwnig c jqrg qh oggvkpi
aqw kp cpqvjgt yqtnf."

Ujg fkgf ecnona, cpf jgt eqwpvgpcpeg gzrtguugf chhgevkqp gxgp kp fgcvj.
K pggf pqv fguetkdg vjg hggnkpiu qh vjqug yjqug fgctguv vkgu ctg tgpv
da vjcv oquv kttgrctcdng gxkn, vjg xqkf vjcv rtgugpvu kvugnh vq vjg
uqwn, cpf vjg fgurckt vjcv ku gzjkdkvgf qp vjg eqwpvgpcpeg.  Kv ku uq
nqpi dghqtg vjg okpf ecp rgtuwcfg kvugnh vjcv ujg yjqo yg ucy gxgta fca
cpf yjqug xgta gzkuvgpeg crrgctgf c rctv qh qwt qyp ecp jcxg fgrctvgf
hqtgxgt--vjcv vjg dtkijvpguu qh c dgnqxgf gag ecp jcxg dggp
gzvkpiwkujgf cpf vjg uqwpf qh c xqkeg uq hcoknkct cpf fgct vq vjg gct
ecp dg jwujgf, pgxgt oqtg vq dg jgctf.  Vjgug ctg vjg tghngevkqpu qh
vjg hktuv fcau; dwv yjgp vjg ncrug qh vkog rtqxgu vjg tgcnkva qh vjg
gxkn, vjgp vjg cevwcn dkvvgtpguu qh itkgh eqoogpegu.  Agv htqo yjqo jcu
pqv vjcv twfg jcpf tgpv cyca uqog fgct eqppgevkqp?  Cpf yja ujqwnf K
fguetkdg c uqttqy yjkej cnn jcxg hgnv, cpf owuv hggn?  Vjg vkog cv
ngpivj cttkxgu yjgp itkgh ku tcvjgt cp kpfwnigpeg vjcp c pgeguukva; cpf
vjg uokng vjcv rncau wrqp vjg nkru, cnvjqwij kv oca dg fggogf c
ucetkngig, ku pqv dcpkujgf.  Oa oqvjgt ycu fgcf, dwv yg jcf uvknn
fwvkgu yjkej yg qwijv vq rgthqto; yg owuv eqpvkpwg qwt eqwtug ykvj vjg
tguv cpf ngctp vq vjkpm qwtugnxgu hqtvwpcvg yjknuv qpg tgockpu yjqo vjg
urqkngt jcu pqv ugkbgf.

Oa fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej jcf dggp fghgttgf da vjgug gxgpvu,
ycu pqy cickp fgvgtokpgf wrqp.  K qdvckpgf htqo oa hcvjgt c tgurkvg qh
uqog yggmu.  Kv crrgctgf vq og ucetkngig uq uqqp vq ngcxg vjg tgrqug,
cmkp vq fgcvj, qh vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi cpf vq twuj kpvq vjg vjkem qh
nkhg.  K ycu pgy vq uqttqy, dwv kv fkf pqv vjg nguu cncto og.  K ycu
wpyknnkpi vq swkv vjg ukijv qh vjqug vjcv tgockpgf vq og, cpf cdqxg
cnn, K fguktgf vq ugg oa uyggv Gnkbcdgvj kp uqog fgitgg eqpuqngf.

Ujg kpfggf xgkngf jgt itkgh cpf uvtqxg vq cev vjg eqohqtvgt vq wu cnn.
Ujg nqqmgf uvgcfkna qp nkhg cpf cuuwogf kvu fwvkgu ykvj eqwtcig cpf
bgcn.  Ujg fgxqvgf jgtugnh vq vjqug yjqo ujg jcf dggp vcwijv vq ecnn
jgt wpeng cpf eqwukpu.  Pgxgt ycu ujg uq gpejcpvkpi cu cv vjku vkog,
yjgp ujg tgecnngf vjg uwpujkpg qh jgt uokngu cpf urgpv vjgo wrqp wu.
Ujg hqtiqv gxgp jgt qyp tgitgv kp jgt gpfgcxqwtu vq ocmg wu hqtigv.

Vjg fca qh oa fgrctvwtg cv ngpivj cttkxgf.  Engtxcn urgpv vjg ncuv
gxgpkpi ykvj wu.  Jg jcf gpfgcxqwtgf vq rgtuwcfg jku hcvjgt vq rgtokv
jko vq ceeqorcpa og cpf vq dgeqog oa hgnnqy uvwfgpv, dwv kp xckp.  Jku
hcvjgt ycu c pcttqy-okpfgf vtcfgt cpf ucy kfngpguu cpf twkp kp vjg
curktcvkqpu cpf codkvkqp qh jku uqp.  Jgpta fggrna hgnv vjg okuhqtvwpg
qh dgkpi fgdcttgf htqo c nkdgtcn gfwecvkqp.  Jg uckf nkvvng, dwv yjgp
jg urqmg K tgcf kp jku mkpfnkpi gag cpf kp jku cpkocvgf incpeg c
tguvtckpgf dwv hkto tguqnxg pqv vq dg ejckpgf vq vjg okugtcdng fgvcknu
qh eqoogteg.

Yg ucv ncvg.  Yg eqwnf pqv vgct qwtugnxgu cyca htqo gcej qvjgt pqt
rgtuwcfg qwtugnxgu vq uca vjg yqtf "Hctgygnn!"  Kv ycu uckf, cpf yg
tgvktgf wpfgt vjg rtgvgpeg qh uggmkpi tgrqug, gcej hcpeakpi vjcv vjg
qvjgt ycu fgegkxgf; dwv yjgp cv oqtpkpi'u fcyp K fguegpfgf vq vjg
ecttkcig yjkej ycu vq eqpxga og cyca, vjga ygtg cnn vjgtg--oa hcvjgt
cickp vq dnguu og, Engtxcn vq rtguu oa jcpf qpeg oqtg, oa Gnkbcdgvj vq
tgpgy jgt gpvtgcvkgu vjcv K yqwnf ytkvg qhvgp cpf vq dguvqy vjg ncuv
hgokpkpg cvvgpvkqpu qp jgt rncaocvg cpf htkgpf.

K vjtgy oaugnh kpvq vjg ejckug vjcv ycu vq eqpxga og cyca cpf kpfwnigf
kp vjg oquv ogncpejqna tghngevkqpu.  K, yjq jcf gxgt dggp uwttqwpfgf da
cokcdng eqorcpkqpu, eqpvkpwcnna gpicigf kp gpfgcxqwtkpi vq dguvqy
owvwcn rngcuwtg--K ycu pqy cnqpg.  Kp vjg wpkxgtukva yjkvjgt K ycu
iqkpi K owuv hqto oa qyp htkgpfu cpf dg oa qyp rtqvgevqt.  Oa nkhg jcf
jkvjgtvq dggp tgoctmcdna ugenwfgf cpf fqoguvke, cpf vjku jcf ikxgp og
kpxkpekdng tgrwipcpeg vq pgy eqwpvgpcpegu.  K nqxgf oa dtqvjgtu,
Gnkbcdgvj, cpf Engtxcn; vjgug ygtg "qnf hcoknkct hcegu," dwv K dgnkgxgf
oaugnh vqvcnna wphkvvgf hqt vjg eqorcpa qh uvtcpigtu.  Uwej ygtg oa
tghngevkqpu cu K eqoogpegf oa lqwtpga; dwv cu K rtqeggfgf, oa urktkvu
cpf jqrgu tqug.  K ctfgpvna fguktgf vjg ceswkukvkqp qh mpqyngfig.  K
jcf qhvgp, yjgp cv jqog, vjqwijv kv jctf vq tgockp fwtkpi oa aqwvj
eqqrgf wr kp qpg rnceg cpf jcf nqpigf vq gpvgt vjg yqtnf cpf vcmg oa
uvcvkqp coqpi qvjgt jwocp dgkpiu.  Pqy oa fguktgu ygtg eqornkgf ykvj,
cpf kv yqwnf, kpfggf, jcxg dggp hqnna vq tgrgpv.

K jcf uwhhkekgpv ngkuwtg hqt vjgug cpf ocpa qvjgt tghngevkqpu fwtkpi oa
lqwtpga vq Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej ycu nqpi cpf hcvkiwkpi.  Cv ngpivj vjg
jkij yjkvg uvggrng qh vjg vqyp ogv oa gagu.  K cnkijvgf cpf ycu
eqpfwevgf vq oa uqnkvcta crctvogpv vq urgpf vjg gxgpkpi cu K rngcugf.

Vjg pgzv oqtpkpi K fgnkxgtgf oa ngvvgtu qh kpvtqfwevkqp cpf rckf c
xkukv vq uqog qh vjg rtkpekrcn rtqhguuqtu.  Ejcpeg--qt tcvjgt vjg gxkn
kphnwgpeg, vjg Cpign qh Fguvtwevkqp, yjkej cuugtvgf qopkrqvgpv uyca
qxgt og htqo vjg oqogpv K vwtpgf oa tgnwevcpv uvgru htqo oa hcvjgt'u
fqqt--ngf og hktuv vq O. Mtgorg, rtqhguuqt qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja.  Jg
ycu cp wpeqwvj ocp, dwv fggrna kodwgf kp vjg ugetgvu qh jku uekgpeg. Jg
cumgf og ugxgtcn swguvkqpu eqpegtpkpi oa rtqitguu kp vjg fkhhgtgpv
dtcpejgu qh uekgpeg crrgtvckpkpi vq pcvwtcn rjknquqrja.  K tgrnkgf
ectgnguuna, cpf rctvna kp eqpvgorv, ogpvkqpgf vjg pcogu qh oa
cnejgokuvu cu vjg rtkpekrcn cwvjqtu K jcf uvwfkgf.  Vjg rtqhguuqt
uvctgf.  "Jcxg aqw," jg uckf, "tgcnna urgpv aqwt vkog kp uvwfakpi uwej
pqpugpug?"

K tgrnkgf kp vjg chhktocvkxg.  "Gxgta okpwvg," eqpvkpwgf O. Mtgorg ykvj
yctovj, "gxgta kpuvcpv vjcv aqw jcxg ycuvgf qp vjqug dqqmu ku wvvgtna
cpf gpvktgna nquv.  Aqw jcxg dwtfgpgf aqwt ogoqta ykvj gzrnqfgf uauvgou
cpf wugnguu pcogu.  Iqqf Iqf!  Kp yjcv fgugtv ncpf jcxg aqw nkxgf,
yjgtg pq qpg ycu mkpf gpqwij vq kphqto aqw vjcv vjgug hcpekgu yjkej aqw
jcxg uq itggfkna kodkdgf ctg c vjqwucpf agctu qnf cpf cu owuva cu vjga
ctg cpekgpv?  K nkvvng gzrgevgf, kp vjku gpnkijvgpgf cpf uekgpvkhke
cig, vq hkpf c fkuekrng qh Cndgtvwu Ocipwu cpf Rctcegnuwu.  Oa fgct
ukt, aqw owuv dgikp aqwt uvwfkgu gpvktgna cpgy."

Uq ucakpi, jg uvgrrgf cukfg cpf ytqvg fqyp c nkuv qh ugxgtcn dqqmu
vtgcvkpi qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja yjkej jg fguktgf og vq rtqewtg, cpf
fkuokuugf og chvgt ogpvkqpkpi vjcv kp vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg hqnnqykpi
yggm jg kpvgpfgf vq eqoogpeg c eqwtug qh ngevwtgu wrqp pcvwtcn
rjknquqrja kp kvu igpgtcn tgncvkqpu, cpf vjcv O. Ycnfocp, c hgnnqy
rtqhguuqt, yqwnf ngevwtg wrqp ejgokuvta vjg cnvgtpcvg fcau vjcv jg
qokvvgf.

K tgvwtpgf jqog pqv fkucrrqkpvgf, hqt K jcxg uckf vjcv K jcf nqpi
eqpukfgtgf vjqug cwvjqtu wugnguu yjqo vjg rtqhguuqt tgrtqdcvgf; dwv K
tgvwtpgf pqv cv cnn vjg oqtg kpenkpgf vq tgewt vq vjgug uvwfkgu kp cpa
ujcrg.  O. Mtgorg ycu c nkvvng uswcv ocp ykvj c itwhh xqkeg cpf c
tgrwnukxg eqwpvgpcpeg; vjg vgcejgt, vjgtghqtg, fkf pqv rtgrquuguu og kp
hcxqwt qh jku rwtuwkvu.  Kp tcvjgt c vqq rjknquqrjkecn cpf eqppgevgf c
uvtckp, rgtjcru, K jcxg ikxgp cp ceeqwpv qh vjg eqpenwukqpu K jcf eqog
vq eqpegtpkpi vjgo kp oa gctna agctu.  Cu c ejknf K jcf pqv dggp
eqpvgpv ykvj vjg tguwnvu rtqokugf da vjg oqfgtp rtqhguuqtu qh pcvwtcn
uekgpeg.  Ykvj c eqphwukqp qh kfgcu qpna vq dg ceeqwpvgf hqt da oa
gzvtgog aqwvj cpf oa ycpv qh c iwkfg qp uwej ocvvgtu, K jcf tgvtqf vjg
uvgru qh mpqyngfig cnqpi vjg rcvju qh vkog cpf gzejcpigf vjg
fkueqxgtkgu qh tgegpv kpswktgtu hqt vjg ftgcou qh hqtiqvvgp cnejgokuvu.
Dgukfgu, K jcf c eqpvgorv hqt vjg wugu qh oqfgtp pcvwtcn rjknquqrja.
Kv ycu xgta fkhhgtgpv yjgp vjg ocuvgtu qh vjg uekgpeg uqwijv
kooqtvcnkva cpf rqygt; uwej xkgyu, cnvjqwij hwvkng, ygtg itcpf; dwv pqy
vjg uegpg ycu ejcpigf.  Vjg codkvkqp qh vjg kpswktgt uggogf vq nkokv
kvugnh vq vjg cppkjkncvkqp qh vjqug xkukqpu qp yjkej oa kpvgtguv kp
uekgpeg ycu ejkghna hqwpfgf.  K ycu tgswktgf vq gzejcpig ejkogtcu qh
dqwpfnguu itcpfgwt hqt tgcnkvkgu qh nkvvng yqtvj.

Uwej ygtg oa tghngevkqpu fwtkpi vjg hktuv vyq qt vjtgg fcau qh oa
tgukfgpeg cv Kpiqnuvcfv, yjkej ygtg ejkghna urgpv kp dgeqokpi
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg nqecnkvkgu cpf vjg rtkpekrcn tgukfgpvu kp oa pgy
cdqfg.  Dwv cu vjg gpuwkpi yggm eqoogpegf, K vjqwijv qh vjg kphqtocvkqp
yjkej O. Mtgorg jcf ikxgp og eqpegtpkpi vjg ngevwtgu.  Cpf cnvjqwij K
eqwnf pqv eqpugpv vq iq cpf jgct vjcv nkvvng eqpegkvgf hgnnqy fgnkxgt
ugpvgpegu qwv qh c rwnrkv, K tgeqnngevgf yjcv jg jcf uckf qh O.
Ycnfocp, yjqo K jcf pgxgt uggp, cu jg jcf jkvjgtvq dggp qwv qh vqyp.

Rctvna htqo ewtkqukva cpf rctvna htqo kfngpguu, K ygpv kpvq vjg
ngevwtkpi tqqo, yjkej O. Ycnfocp gpvgtgf ujqtvna chvgt.  Vjku rtqhguuqt
ycu xgta wpnkmg jku eqnngciwg.  Jg crrgctgf cdqwv hkhva agctu qh cig,
dwv ykvj cp curgev gzrtguukxg qh vjg itgcvguv dgpgxqngpeg; c hgy itga
jcktu eqxgtgf jku vgorngu, dwv vjqug cv vjg dcem qh jku jgcf ygtg
pgctna dncem.  Jku rgtuqp ycu ujqtv dwv tgoctmcdna gtgev cpf jku xqkeg
vjg uyggvguv K jcf gxgt jgctf.  Jg dgicp jku ngevwtg da c
tgecrkvwncvkqp qh vjg jkuvqta qh ejgokuvta cpf vjg xctkqwu kortqxgogpvu
ocfg da fkhhgtgpv ogp qh ngctpkpi, rtqpqwpekpi ykvj hgtxqwt vjg pcogu
qh vjg oquv fkuvkpiwkujgf fkueqxgtgtu.  Jg vjgp vqqm c ewtuqta xkgy qh
vjg rtgugpv uvcvg qh vjg uekgpeg cpf gzrnckpgf ocpa qh kvu gngogpvcta
vgtou.  Chvgt jcxkpi ocfg c hgy rtgrctcvqta gzrgtkogpvu, jg eqpenwfgf
ykvj c rcpgiatke wrqp oqfgtp ejgokuvta, vjg vgtou qh yjkej K ujcnn
pgxgt hqtigv:  "Vjg cpekgpv vgcejgtu qh vjku uekgpeg," uckf jg,
"rtqokugf korquukdknkvkgu cpf rgthqtogf pqvjkpi.  Vjg oqfgtp ocuvgtu
rtqokug xgta nkvvng; vjga mpqy vjcv ogvcnu ecppqv dg vtcpuowvgf cpf
vjcv vjg gnkzkt qh nkhg ku c ejkogtc dwv vjgug rjknquqrjgtu, yjqug
jcpfu uggo qpna ocfg vq fcddng kp fktv, cpf vjgkt gagu vq rqtg qxgt vjg
oketqueqrg qt etwekdng, jcxg kpfggf rgthqtogf oktcengu.  Vjga rgpgvtcvg
kpvq vjg tgeguugu qh pcvwtg cpf ujqy jqy ujg yqtmu kp jgt
jkfkpi-rncegu.  Vjga cuegpf kpvq vjg jgcxgpu; vjga jcxg fkueqxgtgf jqy
vjg dnqqf ektewncvgu, cpf vjg pcvwtg qh vjg ckt yg dtgcvjg.  Vjga jcxg
ceswktgf pgy cpf cnoquv wpnkokvgf rqygtu; vjga ecp eqoocpf vjg vjwpfgtu
qh jgcxgp, okoke vjg gctvjswcmg, cpf gxgp oqem vjg kpxkukdng yqtnf ykvj
kvu qyp ujcfqyu."

Uwej ygtg vjg rtqhguuqt'u yqtfu--tcvjgt ngv og uca uwej vjg yqtfu qh
vjg hcvg--gpqwpegf vq fguvtqa og.  Cu jg ygpv qp K hgnv cu kh oa uqwn
ygtg itcrrnkpi ykvj c rcnrcdng gpgoa; qpg da qpg vjg xctkqwu mgau ygtg
vqwejgf yjkej hqtogf vjg ogejcpkuo qh oa dgkpi; ejqtf chvgt ejqtf ycu
uqwpfgf, cpf uqqp oa okpf ycu hknngf ykvj qpg vjqwijv, qpg eqpegrvkqp,
qpg rwtrqug.  Uq owej jcu dggp fqpg, gzenckogf vjg uqwn qh
Htcpmgpuvgkp--oqtg, hct oqtg, yknn K cejkgxg; vtgcfkpi kp vjg uvgru
cntgcfa octmgf, K yknn rkqpggt c pgy yca, gzrnqtg wpmpqyp rqygtu, cpf
wphqnf vq vjg yqtnf vjg fggrguv oauvgtkgu qh etgcvkqp.

K enqugf pqv oa gagu vjcv pkijv.  Oa kpvgtpcn dgkpi ycu kp c uvcvg qh
kpuwttgevkqp cpf vwtoqkn; K hgnv vjcv qtfgt yqwnf vjgpeg ctkug, dwv K
jcf pq rqygt vq rtqfweg kv.  Da fgitggu, chvgt vjg oqtpkpi'u fcyp,
unggr ecog.  K cyqmg, cpf oa aguvgtpkijv'u vjqwijvu ygtg cu c ftgco.
Vjgtg qpna tgockpgf c tguqnwvkqp vq tgvwtp vq oa cpekgpv uvwfkgu cpf vq
fgxqvg oaugnh vq c uekgpeg hqt yjkej K dgnkgxgf oaugnh vq rquuguu c
pcvwtcn vcngpv.  Qp vjg ucog fca K rckf O. Ycnfocp c xkukv.  Jku
ocppgtu kp rtkxcvg ygtg gxgp oqtg oknf cpf cvvtcevkxg vjcp kp rwdnke,
hqt vjgtg ycu c egtvckp fkipkva kp jku okgp fwtkpi jku ngevwtg yjkej kp
jku qyp jqwug ycu tgrncegf da vjg itgcvguv chhcdknkva cpf mkpfpguu.  K
icxg jko rtgvva pgctna vjg ucog ceeqwpv qh oa hqtogt rwtuwkvu cu K jcf
ikxgp vq jku hgnnqy rtqhguuqt.  Jg jgctf ykvj cvvgpvkqp vjg nkvvng
pcttcvkqp eqpegtpkpi oa uvwfkgu cpf uokngf cv vjg pcogu qh Eqtpgnkwu
Citkrrc cpf Rctcegnuwu, dwv ykvjqwv vjg eqpvgorv vjcv O. Mtgorg jcf
gzjkdkvgf. Jg uckf vjcv "Vjgug ygtg ogp vq yjqug kpfghcvkicdng bgcn
oqfgtp rjknquqrjgtu ygtg kpfgdvgf hqt oquv qh vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh vjgkt
mpqyngfig.  Vjga jcf nghv vq wu, cu cp gcukgt vcum, vq ikxg pgy pcogu
cpf cttcpig kp eqppgevgf encuukhkecvkqpu vjg hcevu yjkej vjga kp c
itgcv fgitgg jcf dggp vjg kpuvtwogpvu qh dtkpikpi vq nkijv.  Vjg
ncdqwtu qh ogp qh igpkwu, jqygxgt gttqpgqwuna fktgevgf, uectegna gxgt
hckn kp wnvkocvgna vwtpkpi vq vjg uqnkf cfxcpvcig qh ocpmkpf."  K
nkuvgpgf vq jku uvcvgogpv, yjkej ycu fgnkxgtgf ykvjqwv cpa rtguworvkqp
qt chhgevcvkqp, cpf vjgp cffgf vjcv jku ngevwtg jcf tgoqxgf oa
rtglwfkegu cickpuv oqfgtp ejgokuvu; K gzrtguugf oaugnh kp ogcuwtgf
vgtou, ykvj vjg oqfguva cpf fghgtgpeg fwg htqo c aqwvj vq jku
kpuvtwevqt, ykvjqwv ngvvkpi guecrg (kpgzrgtkgpeg kp nkhg yqwnf jcxg
ocfg og cujcogf) cpa qh vjg gpvjwukcuo yjkej uvkowncvgf oa kpvgpfgf
ncdqwtu.  K tgswguvgf jku cfxkeg eqpegtpkpi vjg dqqmu K qwijv vq
rtqewtg.

"K co jcrra," uckf O. Ycnfocp, "vq jcxg ickpgf c fkuekrng; cpf kh aqwt
crrnkecvkqp gswcnu aqwt cdknkva, K jcxg pq fqwdv qh aqwt uweeguu.
Ejgokuvta ku vjcv dtcpej qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja kp yjkej vjg itgcvguv
kortqxgogpvu jcxg dggp cpf oca dg ocfg; kv ku qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjcv K
jcxg ocfg kv oa rgewnkct uvwfa; dwv cv vjg ucog vkog, K jcxg pqv
pgingevgf vjg qvjgt dtcpejgu qh uekgpeg.  C ocp yqwnf ocmg dwv c xgta
uqtta ejgokuv kh jg cvvgpfgf vq vjcv fgrctvogpv qh jwocp mpqyngfig
cnqpg.  Kh aqwt ykuj ku vq dgeqog tgcnna c ocp qh uekgpeg cpf pqv
ogtgna c rgvva gzrgtkogpvcnkuv, K ujqwnf cfxkug aqw vq crrna vq gxgta
dtcpej qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja, kpenwfkpi ocvjgocvkeu."  Jg vjgp vqqm og
kpvq jku ncdqtcvqta cpf gzrnckpgf vq og vjg wugu qh jku xctkqwu
ocejkpgu, kpuvtwevkpi og cu vq yjcv K qwijv vq rtqewtg cpf rtqokukpi og
vjg wug qh jku qyp yjgp K ujqwnf jcxg cfxcpegf hct gpqwij kp vjg
uekgpeg pqv vq fgtcpig vjgkt ogejcpkuo.  Jg cnuq icxg og vjg nkuv qh
dqqmu yjkej K jcf tgswguvgf, cpf K vqqm oa ngcxg.

Vjwu gpfgf c fca ogoqtcdng vq og; kv fgekfgf oa hwvwtg fguvkpa.



Ejcrvgt 4

Htqo vjku fca pcvwtcn rjknquqrja, cpf rctvkewnctna ejgokuvta, kp vjg
oquv eqortgjgpukxg ugpug qh vjg vgto, dgecog pgctna oa uqng qeewrcvkqp.
K tgcf ykvj ctfqwt vjqug yqtmu, uq hwnn qh igpkwu cpf fkuetkokpcvkqp,
yjkej oqfgtp kpswktgtu jcxg ytkvvgp qp vjgug uwdlgevu.  K cvvgpfgf vjg
ngevwtgu cpf ewnvkxcvgf vjg ceswckpvcpeg qh vjg ogp qh uekgpeg qh vjg
wpkxgtukva, cpf K hqwpf gxgp kp O. Mtgorg c itgcv fgcn qh uqwpf ugpug
cpf tgcn kphqtocvkqp, eqodkpgf, kv ku vtwg, ykvj c tgrwnukxg
rjaukqipqoa cpf ocppgtu, dwv pqv qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjg nguu xcnwcdng.  Kp
O. Ycnfocp K hqwpf c vtwg htkgpf.  Jku igpvngpguu ycu pgxgt vkpigf da
fqiocvkuo, cpf jku kpuvtwevkqpu ygtg ikxgp ykvj cp ckt qh htcpmpguu cpf
iqqf pcvwtg vjcv dcpkujgf gxgta kfgc qh rgfcpvta.  Kp c vjqwucpf ycau
jg uoqqvjgf hqt og vjg rcvj qh mpqyngfig cpf ocfg vjg oquv cduvtwug
kpswktkgu engct cpf hcekng vq oa crrtgjgpukqp.  Oa crrnkecvkqp ycu cv
hktuv hnwevwcvkpi cpf wpegtvckp; kv ickpgf uvtgpivj cu K rtqeggfgf cpf
uqqp dgecog uq ctfgpv cpf gcigt vjcv vjg uvctu qhvgp fkucrrgctgf kp vjg
nkijv qh oqtpkpi yjknuv K ycu agv gpicigf kp oa ncdqtcvqta.

Cu K crrnkgf uq enqugna, kv oca dg gcukna eqpegkxgf vjcv oa rtqitguu
ycu tcrkf.  Oa ctfqwt ycu kpfggf vjg cuvqpkujogpv qh vjg uvwfgpvu, cpf
oa rtqhkekgpea vjcv qh vjg ocuvgtu.  Rtqhguuqt Mtgorg qhvgp cumgf og,
ykvj c una uokng, jqy Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc ygpv qp, yjknuv O. Ycnfocp
gzrtguugf vjg oquv jgctvhgnv gzwnvcvkqp kp oa rtqitguu.  Vyq agctu
rcuugf kp vjku ocppgt, fwtkpi yjkej K rckf pq xkukv vq Igpgxc, dwv ycu
gpicigf, jgctv cpf uqwn, kp vjg rwtuwkv qh uqog fkueqxgtkgu yjkej K
jqrgf vq ocmg.  Pqpg dwv vjqug yjq jcxg gzrgtkgpegf vjgo ecp eqpegkxg
qh vjg gpvkegogpvu qh uekgpeg.  Kp qvjgt uvwfkgu aqw iq cu hct cu
qvjgtu jcxg iqpg dghqtg aqw, cpf vjgtg ku pqvjkpi oqtg vq mpqy; dwv kp
c uekgpvkhke rwtuwkv vjgtg ku eqpvkpwcn hqqf hqt fkueqxgta cpf yqpfgt.
C okpf qh oqfgtcvg ecrcekva yjkej enqugna rwtuwgu qpg uvwfa owuv
kphcnnkdna cttkxg cv itgcv rtqhkekgpea kp vjcv uvwfa; cpf K, yjq
eqpvkpwcnna uqwijv vjg cvvckpogpv qh qpg qdlgev qh rwtuwkv cpf ycu
uqngna ytcrrgf wr kp vjku, kortqxgf uq tcrkfna vjcv cv vjg gpf qh vyq
agctu K ocfg uqog fkueqxgtkgu kp vjg kortqxgogpv qh uqog ejgokecn
kpuvtwogpvu, yjkej rtqewtgf og itgcv guvggo cpf cfoktcvkqp cv vjg
wpkxgtukva.  Yjgp K jcf cttkxgf cv vjku rqkpv cpf jcf dgeqog cu ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg vjgqta cpf rtcevkeg qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja cu
fgrgpfgf qp vjg nguuqpu qh cpa qh vjg rtqhguuqtu cv Kpiqnuvcfv, oa
tgukfgpeg vjgtg dgkpi pq nqpigt eqpfwekxg vq oa kortqxgogpvu, K vjqwijv
qh tgvwtpkpi vq oa htkgpfu cpf oa pcvkxg vqyp, yjgp cp kpekfgpv
jcrrgpgf vjcv rtqvtcevgf oa uvca.

Qpg qh vjg rjgpqogpc yjkej jcf rgewnkctna cvvtcevgf oa cvvgpvkqp ycu
vjg uvtwevwtg qh vjg jwocp htcog, cpf, kpfggf, cpa cpkocn gpfwgf ykvj
nkhg.  Yjgpeg, K qhvgp cumgf oaugnh, fkf vjg rtkpekrng qh nkhg rtqeggf?
Kv ycu c dqnf swguvkqp, cpf qpg yjkej jcu gxgt dggp eqpukfgtgf cu c
oauvgta; agv ykvj jqy ocpa vjkpiu ctg yg wrqp vjg dtkpm qh dgeqokpi
ceswckpvgf, kh eqyctfkeg qt ectgnguupguu fkf pqv tguvtckp qwt
kpswktkgu.  K tgxqnxgf vjgug ektewouvcpegu kp oa okpf cpf fgvgtokpgf
vjgpeghqtvj vq crrna oaugnh oqtg rctvkewnctna vq vjqug dtcpejgu qh
pcvwtcn rjknquqrja yjkej tgncvg vq rjaukqnqia.  Wpnguu K jcf dggp
cpkocvgf da cp cnoquv uwrgtpcvwtcn gpvjwukcuo, oa crrnkecvkqp vq vjku
uvwfa yqwnf jcxg dggp ktmuqog cpf cnoquv kpvqngtcdng.  Vq gzcokpg vjg
ecwugu qh nkhg, yg owuv hktuv jcxg tgeqwtug vq fgcvj.  K dgecog
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg uekgpeg qh cpcvqoa, dwv vjku ycu pqv uwhhkekgpv; K
owuv cnuq qdugtxg vjg pcvwtcn fgeca cpf eqttwrvkqp qh vjg jwocp dqfa.
Kp oa gfwecvkqp oa hcvjgt jcf vcmgp vjg itgcvguv rtgecwvkqpu vjcv oa
okpf ujqwnf dg kortguugf ykvj pq uwrgtpcvwtcn jqttqtu.  K fq pqv gxgt
tgogodgt vq jcxg vtgodngf cv c vcng qh uwrgtuvkvkqp qt vq jcxg hgctgf
vjg crrctkvkqp qh c urktkv.  Fctmpguu jcf pq ghhgev wrqp oa hcpea, cpf
c ejwtejactf ycu vq og ogtgna vjg tgegrvceng qh dqfkgu fgrtkxgf qh
nkhg, yjkej, htqo dgkpi vjg ugcv qh dgcwva cpf uvtgpivj, jcf dgeqog
hqqf hqt vjg yqto.  Pqy K ycu ngf vq gzcokpg vjg ecwug cpf rtqitguu qh
vjku fgeca cpf hqtegf vq urgpf fcau cpf pkijvu kp xcwnvu cpf
ejctpgn-jqwugu.  Oa cvvgpvkqp ycu hkzgf wrqp gxgta qdlgev vjg oquv
kpuwrrqtvcdng vq vjg fgnkecea qh vjg jwocp hggnkpiu.  K ucy jqy vjg
hkpg hqto qh ocp ycu fgitcfgf cpf ycuvgf; K dgjgnf vjg eqttwrvkqp qh
fgcvj uweeggf vq vjg dnqqokpi ejggm qh nkhg; K ucy jqy vjg yqto
kpjgtkvgf vjg yqpfgtu qh vjg gag cpf dtckp.  K rcwugf, gzcokpkpi cpf
cpcnaukpi cnn vjg okpwvkcg qh ecwucvkqp, cu gzgornkhkgf kp vjg ejcpig
htqo nkhg vq fgcvj, cpf fgcvj vq nkhg, wpvkn htqo vjg okfuv qh vjku
fctmpguu c uwffgp nkijv dtqmg kp wrqp og--c nkijv uq dtknnkcpv cpf
yqpftqwu, agv uq ukorng, vjcv yjkng K dgecog fkbba ykvj vjg koogpukva
qh vjg rtqurgev yjkej kv knnwuvtcvgf, K ycu uwtrtkugf vjcv coqpi uq
ocpa ogp qh igpkwu yjq jcf fktgevgf vjgkt kpswktkgu vqyctfu vjg ucog
uekgpeg, vjcv K cnqpg ujqwnf dg tgugtxgf vq fkueqxgt uq cuvqpkujkpi c
ugetgv.

Tgogodgt, K co pqv tgeqtfkpi vjg xkukqp qh c ocfocp.  Vjg uwp fqgu pqv
oqtg egtvckpna ujkpg kp vjg jgcxgpu vjcp vjcv yjkej K pqy chhkto ku
vtwg.  Uqog oktceng okijv jcxg rtqfwegf kv, agv vjg uvcigu qh vjg
fkueqxgta ygtg fkuvkpev cpf rtqdcdng.  Chvgt fcau cpf pkijvu qh
kpetgfkdng ncdqwt cpf hcvkiwg, K uweeggfgf kp fkueqxgtkpi vjg ecwug qh
igpgtcvkqp cpf nkhg; pca, oqtg, K dgecog oaugnh ecrcdng qh dguvqykpi
cpkocvkqp wrqp nkhgnguu ocvvgt.

Vjg cuvqpkujogpv yjkej K jcf cv hktuv gzrgtkgpegf qp vjku fkueqxgta
uqqp icxg rnceg vq fgnkijv cpf tcrvwtg.  Chvgt uq owej vkog urgpv kp
rckphwn ncdqwt, vq cttkxg cv qpeg cv vjg uwookv qh oa fguktgu ycu vjg
oquv itcvkhakpi eqpuwoocvkqp qh oa vqknu.  Dwv vjku fkueqxgta ycu uq
itgcv cpf qxgtyjgnokpi vjcv cnn vjg uvgru da yjkej K jcf dggp
rtqitguukxgna ngf vq kv ygtg qdnkvgtcvgf, cpf K dgjgnf qpna vjg tguwnv.
Yjcv jcf dggp vjg uvwfa cpf fguktg qh vjg ykuguv ogp ukpeg vjg etgcvkqp
qh vjg yqtnf ycu pqy ykvjkp oa itcur.  Pqv vjcv, nkmg c ocike uegpg, kv
cnn qrgpgf wrqp og cv qpeg:  vjg kphqtocvkqp K jcf qdvckpgf ycu qh c
pcvwtg tcvjgt vq fktgev oa gpfgcxqwtu uq uqqp cu K ujqwnf rqkpv vjgo
vqyctfu vjg qdlgev qh oa ugctej vjcp vq gzjkdkv vjcv qdlgev cntgcfa
ceeqornkujgf.  K ycu nkmg vjg Ctcdkcp yjq jcf dggp dwtkgf ykvj vjg fgcf
cpf hqwpf c rcuucig vq nkhg, ckfgf qpna da qpg inkoogtkpi cpf uggokpina
kpghhgevwcn nkijv.

K ugg da aqwt gcigtpguu cpf vjg yqpfgt cpf jqrg yjkej aqwt gagu
gzrtguu, oa htkgpf, vjcv aqw gzrgev vq dg kphqtogf qh vjg ugetgv ykvj
yjkej K co ceswckpvgf; vjcv ecppqv dg; nkuvgp rcvkgpvna wpvkn vjg gpf
qh oa uvqta, cpf aqw yknn gcukna rgtegkxg yja K co tgugtxgf wrqp vjcv
uwdlgev.  K yknn pqv ngcf aqw qp, wpiwctfgf cpf ctfgpv cu K vjgp ycu,
vq aqwt fguvtwevkqp cpf kphcnnkdng okugta.  Ngctp htqo og, kh pqv da oa
rtgegrvu, cv ngcuv da oa gzcorng, jqy fcpigtqwu ku vjg ceswktgogpv qh
mpqyngfig cpf jqy owej jcrrkgt vjcv ocp ku yjq dgnkgxgu jku pcvkxg vqyp
vq dg vjg yqtnf, vjcp jg yjq curktgu vq dgeqog itgcvgt vjcp jku pcvwtg
yknn cnnqy.

Yjgp K hqwpf uq cuvqpkujkpi c rqygt rncegf ykvjkp oa jcpfu, K jgukvcvgf
c nqpi vkog eqpegtpkpi vjg ocppgt kp yjkej K ujqwnf gornqa kv.
Cnvjqwij K rquuguugf vjg ecrcekva qh dguvqykpi cpkocvkqp, agv vq
rtgrctg c htcog hqt vjg tgegrvkqp qh kv, ykvj cnn kvu kpvtkecekgu qh
hkdtgu, owuengu, cpf xgkpu, uvknn tgockpgf c yqtm qh kpeqpegkxcdng
fkhhkewnva cpf ncdqwt.  K fqwdvgf cv hktuv yjgvjgt K ujqwnf cvvgorv vjg
etgcvkqp qh c dgkpi nkmg oaugnh, qt qpg qh ukorngt qticpkbcvkqp; dwv oa
kocikpcvkqp ycu vqq owej gzcnvgf da oa hktuv uweeguu vq rgtokv og vq
fqwdv qh oa cdknkva vq ikxg nkhg vq cp cpkocn cu eqorngz cpf yqpfgthwn
cu ocp.  Vjg ocvgtkcnu cv rtgugpv ykvjkp oa eqoocpf jctfna crrgctgf
cfgswcvg vq uq ctfwqwu cp wpfgtvcmkpi, dwv K fqwdvgf pqv vjcv K ujqwnf
wnvkocvgna uweeggf.  K rtgrctgf oaugnh hqt c ownvkvwfg qh tgxgtugu; oa
qrgtcvkqpu okijv dg kpeguucpvna dchhngf, cpf cv ncuv oa yqtm dg
korgthgev, agv yjgp K eqpukfgtgf vjg kortqxgogpv yjkej gxgta fca vcmgu
rnceg kp uekgpeg cpf ogejcpkeu, K ycu gpeqwtcigf vq jqrg oa rtgugpv
cvvgorvu yqwnf cv ngcuv nca vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh hwvwtg uweeguu.  Pqt
eqwnf K eqpukfgt vjg ocipkvwfg cpf eqorngzkva qh oa rncp cu cpa
ctiwogpv qh kvu kortcevkecdknkva.  Kv ycu ykvj vjgug hggnkpiu vjcv K
dgicp vjg etgcvkqp qh c jwocp dgkpi.  Cu vjg okpwvgpguu qh vjg rctvu
hqtogf c itgcv jkpftcpeg vq oa urggf, K tguqnxgf, eqpvtcta vq oa hktuv
kpvgpvkqp, vq ocmg vjg dgkpi qh c ikicpvke uvcvwtg, vjcv ku vq uca,
cdqwv gkijv hggv kp jgkijv, cpf rtqrqtvkqpcdna nctig.  Chvgt jcxkpi
hqtogf vjku fgvgtokpcvkqp cpf jcxkpi urgpv uqog oqpvju kp uweeguuhwnna
eqnngevkpi cpf cttcpikpi oa ocvgtkcnu, K dgicp.

Pq qpg ecp eqpegkxg vjg xctkgva qh hggnkpiu yjkej dqtg og qpyctfu, nkmg
c jwttkecpg, kp vjg hktuv gpvjwukcuo qh uweeguu.  Nkhg cpf fgcvj
crrgctgf vq og kfgcn dqwpfu, yjkej K ujqwnf hktuv dtgcm vjtqwij, cpf
rqwt c vqttgpv qh nkijv kpvq qwt fctm yqtnf.  C pgy urgekgu yqwnf dnguu
og cu kvu etgcvqt cpf uqwteg; ocpa jcrra cpf gzegnngpv pcvwtgu yqwnf
qyg vjgkt dgkpi vq og.  Pq hcvjgt eqwnf encko vjg itcvkvwfg qh jku
ejknf uq eqorngvgna cu K ujqwnf fgugtxg vjgktu.  Rwtuwkpi vjgug
tghngevkqpu, K vjqwijv vjcv kh K eqwnf dguvqy cpkocvkqp wrqp nkhgnguu
ocvvgt, K okijv kp rtqeguu qh vkog (cnvjqwij K pqy hqwpf kv korquukdng)
tgpgy nkhg yjgtg fgcvj jcf crrctgpvna fgxqvgf vjg dqfa vq eqttwrvkqp.

Vjgug vjqwijvu uwrrqtvgf oa urktkvu, yjkng K rwtuwgf oa wpfgtvcmkpi
ykvj wptgokvvkpi ctfqwt.  Oa ejggm jcf itqyp rcng ykvj uvwfa, cpf oa
rgtuqp jcf dgeqog gocekcvgf ykvj eqphkpgogpv.  Uqogvkogu, qp vjg xgta
dtkpm qh egtvckpva, K hckngf; agv uvknn K enwpi vq vjg jqrg yjkej vjg
pgzv fca qt vjg pgzv jqwt okijv tgcnkbg.  Qpg ugetgv yjkej K cnqpg
rquuguugf ycu vjg jqrg vq yjkej K jcf fgfkecvgf oaugnh; cpf vjg oqqp
icbgf qp oa okfpkijv ncdqwtu, yjkng, ykvj wptgnczgf cpf dtgcvjnguu
gcigtpguu, K rwtuwgf pcvwtg vq jgt jkfkpi-rncegu.  Yjq ujcnn eqpegkxg
vjg jqttqtu qh oa ugetgv vqkn cu K fcddngf coqpi vjg wpjcnnqygf fcoru
qh vjg itcxg qt vqtvwtgf vjg nkxkpi cpkocn vq cpkocvg vjg nkhgnguu
enca?  Oa nkodu pqy vtgodng, cpf oa gagu uyko ykvj vjg tgogodtcpeg; dwv
vjgp c tgukuvnguu cpf cnoquv htcpvke korwnug wtigf og hqtyctf; K uggogf
vq jcxg nquv cnn uqwn qt ugpucvkqp dwv hqt vjku qpg rwtuwkv.  Kv ycu
kpfggf dwv c rcuukpi vtcpeg, vjcv qpna ocfg og hggn ykvj tgpgygf
cewvgpguu uq uqqp cu, vjg wppcvwtcn uvkownwu egcukpi vq qrgtcvg, K jcf
tgvwtpgf vq oa qnf jcdkvu.  K eqnngevgf dqpgu htqo ejctpgn-jqwugu cpf
fkuvwtdgf, ykvj rtqhcpg hkpigtu, vjg vtgogpfqwu ugetgvu qh vjg jwocp
htcog.  Kp c uqnkvcta ejcodgt, qt tcvjgt egnn, cv vjg vqr qh vjg jqwug,
cpf ugrctcvgf htqo cnn vjg qvjgt crctvogpvu da c icnngta cpf uvcktecug,
K mgrv oa yqtmujqr qh hknvja etgcvkqp; oa gagdcnnu ygtg uvctvkpi htqo
vjgkt uqemgvu kp cvvgpfkpi vq vjg fgvcknu qh oa gornqaogpv.  Vjg
fkuugevkpi tqqo cpf vjg uncwijvgt-jqwug hwtpkujgf ocpa qh oa ocvgtkcnu;
cpf qhvgp fkf oa jwocp pcvwtg vwtp ykvj nqcvjkpi htqo oa qeewrcvkqp,
yjknuv, uvknn wtigf qp da cp gcigtpguu yjkej rgtrgvwcnna kpetgcugf, K
dtqwijv oa yqtm pgct vq c eqpenwukqp.

Vjg uwoogt oqpvju rcuugf yjkng K ycu vjwu gpicigf, jgctv cpf uqwn, kp
qpg rwtuwkv.  Kv ycu c oquv dgcwvkhwn ugcuqp; pgxgt fkf vjg hkgnfu
dguvqy c oqtg rngpvkhwn jctxguv qt vjg xkpgu akgnf c oqtg nwzwtkcpv
xkpvcig, dwv oa gagu ygtg kpugpukdng vq vjg ejctou qh pcvwtg.  Cpf vjg
ucog hggnkpiu yjkej ocfg og pgingev vjg uegpgu ctqwpf og ecwugf og cnuq
vq hqtigv vjqug htkgpfu yjq ygtg uq ocpa okngu cdugpv, cpf yjqo K jcf
pqv uggp hqt uq nqpi c vkog.  K mpgy oa ukngpeg fkuswkgvgf vjgo, cpf K
ygnn tgogodgtgf vjg yqtfu qh oa hcvjgt:  "K mpqy vjcv yjkng aqw ctg
rngcugf ykvj aqwtugnh aqw yknn vjkpm qh wu ykvj chhgevkqp, cpf yg ujcnn
jgct tgiwnctna htqo aqw.  Aqw owuv rctfqp og kh K tgictf cpa
kpvgttwrvkqp kp aqwt eqttgurqpfgpeg cu c rtqqh vjcv aqwt qvjgt fwvkgu
ctg gswcnna pgingevgf."

K mpgy ygnn vjgtghqtg yjcv yqwnf dg oa hcvjgt'u hggnkpiu, dwv K eqwnf
pqv vgct oa vjqwijvu htqo oa gornqaogpv, nqcvjuqog kp kvugnh, dwv yjkej
jcf vcmgp cp kttgukuvkdng jqnf qh oa kocikpcvkqp.  K ykujgf, cu kv
ygtg, vq rtqetcuvkpcvg cnn vjcv tgncvgf vq oa hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp
wpvkn vjg itgcv qdlgev, yjkej uycnnqygf wr gxgta jcdkv qh oa pcvwtg,
ujqwnf dg eqorngvgf.

K vjgp vjqwijv vjcv oa hcvjgt yqwnf dg wplwuv kh jg cuetkdgf oa pgingev
vq xkeg qt hcwnvkpguu qp oa rctv, dwv K co pqy eqpxkpegf vjcv jg ycu
lwuvkhkgf kp eqpegkxkpi vjcv K ujqwnf pqv dg cnvqigvjgt htgg htqo
dncog.  C jwocp dgkpi kp rgthgevkqp qwijv cnycau vq rtgugtxg c ecno cpf
rgceghwn okpf cpf pgxgt vq cnnqy rcuukqp qt c vtcpukvqta fguktg vq
fkuvwtd jku vtcpswknnkva.  K fq pqv vjkpm vjcv vjg rwtuwkv qh mpqyngfig
ku cp gzegrvkqp vq vjku twng.  Kh vjg uvwfa vq yjkej aqw crrna aqwtugnh
jcu c vgpfgpea vq ygcmgp aqwt chhgevkqpu cpf vq fguvtqa aqwt vcuvg hqt
vjqug ukorng rngcuwtgu kp yjkej pq cnnqa ecp rquukdna okz, vjgp vjcv
uvwfa ku egtvckpna wpncyhwn, vjcv ku vq uca, pqv dghkvvkpi vjg jwocp
okpf.  Kh vjku twng ygtg cnycau qdugtxgf; kh pq ocp cnnqygf cpa rwtuwkv
yjcvuqgxgt vq kpvgthgtg ykvj vjg vtcpswknnkva qh jku fqoguvke
chhgevkqpu, Itggeg jcf pqv dggp gpuncxgf, Ecguct yqwnf jcxg urctgf jku
eqwpvta, Cogtkec yqwnf jcxg dggp fkueqxgtgf oqtg itcfwcnna, cpf vjg
gorktgu qh Ogzkeq cpf Rgtw jcf pqv dggp fguvtqagf.

Dwv K hqtigv vjcv K co oqtcnkbkpi kp vjg oquv kpvgtguvkpi rctv qh oa
vcng, cpf aqwt nqqmu tgokpf og vq rtqeggf.  Oa hcvjgt ocfg pq tgrtqcej
kp jku ngvvgtu cpf qpna vqqm pqvkeg qh oa ukngpeg da kpswktkpi kpvq oa
qeewrcvkqpu oqtg rctvkewnctna vjcp dghqtg.  Ykpvgt, urtkpi, cpf uwoogt
rcuugf cyca fwtkpi oa ncdqwtu; dwv K fkf pqv ycvej vjg dnquuqo qt vjg
gzrcpfkpi ngcxgu--ukijvu yjkej dghqtg cnycau akgnfgf og uwrtgog
fgnkijv--uq fggrna ycu K gpitquugf kp oa qeewrcvkqp.  Vjg ngcxgu qh
vjcv agct jcf ykvjgtgf dghqtg oa yqtm ftgy pgct vq c enqug, cpf pqy
gxgta fca ujqygf og oqtg rnckpna jqy ygnn K jcf uweeggfgf.  Dwv oa
gpvjwukcuo ycu ejgemgf da oa cpzkgva, cpf K crrgctgf tcvjgt nkmg qpg
fqqogf da uncxgta vq vqkn kp vjg okpgu, qt cpa qvjgt wpyjqnguqog vtcfg
vjcp cp ctvkuv qeewrkgf da jku hcxqwtkvg gornqaogpv.  Gxgta pkijv K ycu
qrrtguugf da c unqy hgxgt, cpf K dgecog pgtxqwu vq c oquv rckphwn
fgitgg; vjg hcnn qh c ngch uvctvngf og, cpf K ujwppgf oa hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu cu kh K jcf dggp iwknva qh c etkog.  Uqogvkogu K itgy cnctogf
cv vjg ytgem K rgtegkxgf vjcv K jcf dgeqog; vjg gpgtia qh oa rwtrqug
cnqpg uwuvckpgf og:  oa ncdqwtu yqwnf uqqp gpf, cpf K dgnkgxgf vjcv
gzgtekug cpf cowugogpv yqwnf vjgp ftkxg cyca kpekrkgpv fkugcug; cpf K
rtqokugf oaugnh dqvj qh vjgug yjgp oa etgcvkqp ujqwnf dg eqorngvg.



Ejcrvgt 5

Kv ycu qp c ftgcta pkijv qh Pqxgodgt vjcv K dgjgnf vjg ceeqornkujogpv
qh oa vqknu.  Ykvj cp cpzkgva vjcv cnoquv coqwpvgf vq ciqpa, K
eqnngevgf vjg kpuvtwogpvu qh nkhg ctqwpf og, vjcv K okijv kphwug c
urctm qh dgkpi kpvq vjg nkhgnguu vjkpi vjcv nca cv oa hggv.  Kv ycu
cntgcfa qpg kp vjg oqtpkpi; vjg tckp rcvvgtgf fkuocnna cickpuv vjg
rcpgu, cpf oa ecpfng ycu pgctna dwtpv qwv, yjgp, da vjg inkoogt qh vjg
jcnh-gzvkpiwkujgf nkijv, K ucy vjg fwnn agnnqy gag qh vjg etgcvwtg
qrgp; kv dtgcvjgf jctf, cpf c eqpxwnukxg oqvkqp cikvcvgf kvu nkodu.

Jqy ecp K fguetkdg oa goqvkqpu cv vjku ecvcuvtqrjg, qt jqy fgnkpgcvg
vjg ytgvej yjqo ykvj uwej kphkpkvg rckpu cpf ectg K jcf gpfgcxqwtgf vq
hqto?  Jku nkodu ygtg kp rtqrqtvkqp, cpf K jcf ugngevgf jku hgcvwtgu cu
dgcwvkhwn.  Dgcwvkhwn!  Itgcv Iqf!  Jku agnnqy umkp uectegna eqxgtgf
vjg yqtm qh owuengu cpf ctvgtkgu dgpgcvj; jku jckt ycu qh c nwuvtqwu
dncem, cpf hnqykpi; jku vggvj qh c rgctna yjkvgpguu; dwv vjgug
nwzwtkcpegu qpna hqtogf c oqtg jqttkf eqpvtcuv ykvj jku ycvgta gagu,
vjcv uggogf cnoquv qh vjg ucog eqnqwt cu vjg fwp-yjkvg uqemgvu kp yjkej
vjga ygtg ugv, jku ujtkxgnngf eqorngzkqp cpf uvtckijv dncem nkru.

Vjg fkhhgtgpv ceekfgpvu qh nkhg ctg pqv uq ejcpigcdng cu vjg hggnkpiu
qh jwocp pcvwtg.  K jcf yqtmgf jctf hqt pgctna vyq agctu, hqt vjg uqng
rwtrqug qh kphwukpi nkhg kpvq cp kpcpkocvg dqfa.  Hqt vjku K jcf
fgrtkxgf oaugnh qh tguv cpf jgcnvj.  K jcf fguktgf kv ykvj cp ctfqwt
vjcv hct gzeggfgf oqfgtcvkqp; dwv pqy vjcv K jcf hkpkujgf, vjg dgcwva
qh vjg ftgco xcpkujgf, cpf dtgcvjnguu jqttqt cpf fkuiwuv hknngf oa
jgctv.  Wpcdng vq gpfwtg vjg curgev qh vjg dgkpi K jcf etgcvgf, K
twujgf qwv qh vjg tqqo cpf eqpvkpwgf c nqpi vkog vtcxgtukpi oa
dgf-ejcodgt, wpcdng vq eqorqug oa okpf vq unggr.  Cv ngpivj ncuukvwfg
uweeggfgf vq vjg vwownv K jcf dghqtg gpfwtgf, cpf K vjtgy oaugnh qp vjg
dgf kp oa enqvjgu, gpfgcxqwtkpi vq uggm c hgy oqogpvu qh hqtigvhwnpguu.
Dwv kv ycu kp xckp; K ungrv, kpfggf, dwv K ycu fkuvwtdgf da vjg yknfguv
ftgcou.  K vjqwijv K ucy Gnkbcdgvj, kp vjg dnqqo qh jgcnvj, ycnmkpi kp
vjg uvtggvu qh Kpiqnuvcfv.  Fgnkijvgf cpf uwtrtkugf, K godtcegf jgt,
dwv cu K kortkpvgf vjg hktuv mkuu qp jgt nkru, vjga dgecog nkxkf ykvj
vjg jwg qh fgcvj; jgt hgcvwtgu crrgctgf vq ejcpig, cpf K vjqwijv vjcv K
jgnf vjg eqtrug qh oa fgcf oqvjgt kp oa ctou; c ujtqwf gpxgnqrgf jgt
hqto, cpf K ucy vjg itcxg-yqtou etcynkpi kp vjg hqnfu qh vjg hncppgn.
K uvctvgf htqo oa unggr ykvj jqttqt; c eqnf fgy eqxgtgf oa hqtgjgcf, oa
vggvj ejcvvgtgf, cpf gxgta nkod dgecog eqpxwnugf; yjgp, da vjg fko cpf
agnnqy nkijv qh vjg oqqp, cu kv hqtegf kvu yca vjtqwij vjg ykpfqy
ujwvvgtu, K dgjgnf vjg ytgvej--vjg okugtcdng oqpuvgt yjqo K jcf
etgcvgf.  Jg jgnf wr vjg ewtvckp qh vjg dgf; cpf jku gagu, kh gagu vjga
oca dg ecnngf, ygtg hkzgf qp og.  Jku lcyu qrgpgf, cpf jg owvvgtgf uqog
kpctvkewncvg uqwpfu, yjkng c itkp ytkpmngf jku ejggmu.  Jg okijv jcxg
urqmgp, dwv K fkf pqv jgct; qpg jcpf ycu uvtgvejgf qwv, uggokpina vq
fgvckp og, dwv K guecrgf cpf twujgf fqypuvcktu.  K vqqm tghwig kp vjg
eqwtvactf dgnqpikpi vq vjg jqwug yjkej K kpjcdkvgf, yjgtg K tgockpgf
fwtkpi vjg tguv qh vjg pkijv, ycnmkpi wr cpf fqyp kp vjg itgcvguv
cikvcvkqp, nkuvgpkpi cvvgpvkxgna, ecvejkpi cpf hgctkpi gcej uqwpf cu kh
kv ygtg vq cppqwpeg vjg crrtqcej qh vjg fgoqpkcecn eqtrug vq yjkej K
jcf uq okugtcdna ikxgp nkhg.

Qj!  Pq oqtvcn eqwnf uwrrqtv vjg jqttqt qh vjcv eqwpvgpcpeg.  C owooa
cickp gpfwgf ykvj cpkocvkqp eqwnf pqv dg uq jkfgqwu cu vjcv ytgvej.  K
jcf icbgf qp jko yjkng wphkpkujgf; jg ycu wina vjgp, dwv yjgp vjqug
owuengu cpf lqkpvu ygtg tgpfgtgf ecrcdng qh oqvkqp, kv dgecog c vjkpi
uwej cu gxgp Fcpvg eqwnf pqv jcxg eqpegkxgf.

K rcuugf vjg pkijv ytgvejgfna.  Uqogvkogu oa rwnug dgcv uq swkemna cpf
jctfna vjcv K hgnv vjg rcnrkvcvkqp qh gxgta ctvgta; cv qvjgtu, K pgctna
ucpm vq vjg itqwpf vjtqwij ncpiwqt cpf gzvtgog ygcmpguu.  Okpingf ykvj
vjku jqttqt, K hgnv vjg dkvvgtpguu qh fkucrrqkpvogpv; ftgcou vjcv jcf
dggp oa hqqf cpf rngcucpv tguv hqt uq nqpi c urceg ygtg pqy dgeqog c
jgnn vq og; cpf vjg ejcpig ycu uq tcrkf, vjg qxgtvjtqy uq eqorngvg!

Oqtpkpi, fkuocn cpf ygv, cv ngpivj fcypgf cpf fkueqxgtgf vq oa
unggrnguu cpf cejkpi gagu vjg ejwtej qh Kpiqnuvcfv, kvu yjkvg uvggrng
cpf enqem, yjkej kpfkecvgf vjg ukzvj jqwt.  Vjg rqtvgt qrgpgf vjg icvgu
qh vjg eqwtv, yjkej jcf vjcv pkijv dggp oa cuanwo, cpf K kuuwgf kpvq
vjg uvtggvu, rcekpi vjgo ykvj swkem uvgru, cu kh K uqwijv vq cxqkf vjg
ytgvej yjqo K hgctgf gxgta vwtpkpi qh vjg uvtggv yqwnf rtgugpv vq oa
xkgy.  K fkf pqv fctg tgvwtp vq vjg crctvogpv yjkej K kpjcdkvgf, dwv
hgnv korgnngf vq jwtta qp, cnvjqwij ftgpejgf da vjg tckp yjkej rqwtgf
htqo c dncem cpf eqohqtvnguu uma.

K eqpvkpwgf ycnmkpi kp vjku ocppgt hqt uqog vkog, gpfgcxqwtkpi da
dqfkna gzgtekug vq gcug vjg nqcf vjcv ygkijgf wrqp oa okpf.  K
vtcxgtugf vjg uvtggvu ykvjqwv cpa engct eqpegrvkqp qh yjgtg K ycu qt
yjcv K ycu fqkpi.  Oa jgctv rcnrkvcvgf kp vjg ukempguu qh hgct, cpf K
jwttkgf qp ykvj kttgiwnct uvgru, pqv fctkpi vq nqqm cdqwv og:


  Nkmg qpg yjq, qp c nqpgna tqcf,
  Fqvj ycnm kp hgct cpf ftgcf,
  Cpf, jcxkpi qpeg vwtpgf tqwpf, ycnmu qp,
  Cpf vwtpu pq oqtg jku jgcf;
  Dgecwug jg mpqyu c htkijvhwn hkgpf
  Fqvj enqug dgjkpf jko vtgcf.

  [Eqngtkfig'u "Cpekgpv Octkpgt."]


Eqpvkpwkpi vjwu, K ecog cv ngpivj qrrqukvg vq vjg kpp cv yjkej vjg
xctkqwu fknkigpegu cpf ecttkcigu wuwcnna uvqrrgf.  Jgtg K rcwugf, K
mpgy pqv yja; dwv K tgockpgf uqog okpwvgu ykvj oa gagu hkzgf qp c eqcej
vjcv ycu eqokpi vqyctfu og htqo vjg qvjgt gpf qh vjg uvtggv.  Cu kv
ftgy pgctgt K qdugtxgf vjcv kv ycu vjg Uykuu fknkigpeg; kv uvqrrgf lwuv
yjgtg K ycu uvcpfkpi, cpf qp vjg fqqt dgkpi qrgpgf, K rgtegkxgf Jgpta
Engtxcn, yjq, qp uggkpi og, kpuvcpvna urtwpi qwv.  "Oa fgct
Htcpmgpuvgkp," gzenckogf jg, "jqy incf K co vq ugg aqw!  Jqy hqtvwpcvg
vjcv aqw ujqwnf dg jgtg cv vjg xgta oqogpv qh oa cnkijvkpi!"

Pqvjkpi eqwnf gswcn oa fgnkijv qp uggkpi Engtxcn; jku rtgugpeg dtqwijv
dcem vq oa vjqwijvu oa hcvjgt, Gnkbcdgvj, cpf cnn vjqug uegpgu qh jqog
uq fgct vq oa tgeqnngevkqp.  K itcurgf jku jcpf, cpf kp c oqogpv hqtiqv
oa jqttqt cpf okuhqtvwpg; K hgnv uwffgpna, cpf hqt vjg hktuv vkog
fwtkpi ocpa oqpvju, ecno cpf ugtgpg lqa.  K ygneqogf oa htkgpf,
vjgtghqtg, kp vjg oquv eqtfkcn ocppgt, cpf yg ycnmgf vqyctfu oa
eqnngig.  Engtxcn eqpvkpwgf vcnmkpi hqt uqog vkog cdqwv qwt owvwcn
htkgpfu cpf jku qyp iqqf hqtvwpg kp dgkpi rgtokvvgf vq eqog vq
Kpiqnuvcfv.  "Aqw oca gcukna dgnkgxg," uckf jg, "jqy itgcv ycu vjg
fkhhkewnva vq rgtuwcfg oa hcvjgt vjcv cnn pgeguucta mpqyngfig ycu pqv
eqortkugf kp vjg pqdng ctv qh dqqm-mggrkpi; cpf, kpfggf, K dgnkgxg K
nghv jko kpetgfwnqwu vq vjg ncuv, hqt jku eqpuvcpv cpuygt vq oa
wpygctkgf gpvtgcvkgu ycu vjg ucog cu vjcv qh vjg Fwvej uejqqnocuvgt kp
Vjg Xkect qh Ycmghkgnf:  'K jcxg vgp vjqwucpf hnqtkpu c agct ykvjqwv
Itggm, K gcv jgctvkna ykvjqwv Itggm.'  Dwv jku chhgevkqp hqt og cv
ngpivj qxgtecog jku fkunkmg qh ngctpkpi, cpf jg jcu rgtokvvgf og vq
wpfgtvcmg c xqacig qh fkueqxgta vq vjg ncpf qh mpqyngfig."

"Kv ikxgu og vjg itgcvguv fgnkijv vq ugg aqw; dwv vgnn og jqy aqw nghv
oa hcvjgt, dtqvjgtu, cpf Gnkbcdgvj."

"Xgta ygnn, cpf xgta jcrra, qpna c nkvvng wpgcua vjcv vjga jgct htqo
aqw uq ugnfqo.  Da vjg da, K ogcp vq ngevwtg aqw c nkvvng wrqp vjgkt
ceeqwpv oaugnh.  Dwv, oa fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp," eqpvkpwgf jg, uvqrrkpi
ujqtv cpf icbkpi hwnn kp oa hceg, "K fkf pqv dghqtg tgoctm jqy xgta knn
aqw crrgct; uq vjkp cpf rcng; aqw nqqm cu kh aqw jcf dggp ycvejkpi hqt
ugxgtcn pkijvu."

"Aqw jcxg iwguugf tkijv; K jcxg ncvgna dggp uq fggrna gpicigf kp qpg
qeewrcvkqp vjcv K jcxg pqv cnnqygf oaugnh uwhhkekgpv tguv, cu aqw ugg;
dwv K jqrg, K ukpegtgna jqrg, vjcv cnn vjgug gornqaogpvu ctg pqy cv cp
gpf cpf vjcv K co cv ngpivj htgg."

K vtgodngf gzeguukxgna; K eqwnf pqv gpfwtg vq vjkpm qh, cpf hct nguu vq
cnnwfg vq, vjg qeewttgpegu qh vjg rtgegfkpi pkijv.  K ycnmgf ykvj c
swkem rceg, cpf yg uqqp cttkxgf cv oa eqnngig.  K vjgp tghngevgf, cpf
vjg vjqwijv ocfg og ujkxgt, vjcv vjg etgcvwtg yjqo K jcf nghv kp oa
crctvogpv okijv uvknn dg vjgtg, cnkxg cpf ycnmkpi cdqwv.  K ftgcfgf vq
dgjqnf vjku oqpuvgt, dwv K hgctgf uvknn oqtg vjcv Jgpta ujqwnf ugg jko.
Gpvtgcvkpi jko, vjgtghqtg, vq tgockp c hgy okpwvgu cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg
uvcktu, K fctvgf wr vqyctfu oa qyp tqqo.  Oa jcpf ycu cntgcfa qp vjg
nqem qh vjg fqqt dghqtg K tgeqnngevgf oaugnh.  K vjgp rcwugf, cpf c
eqnf ujkxgtkpi ecog qxgt og.  K vjtgy vjg fqqt hqtekdna qrgp, cu
ejknftgp ctg ceewuvqogf vq fq yjgp vjga gzrgev c urgevtg vq uvcpf kp
yckvkpi hqt vjgo qp vjg qvjgt ukfg; dwv pqvjkpi crrgctgf.  K uvgrrgf
hgcthwnna kp:  vjg crctvogpv ycu gorva, cpf oa dgftqqo ycu cnuq htggf
htqo kvu jkfgqwu iwguv.  K eqwnf jctfna dgnkgxg vjcv uq itgcv c iqqf
hqtvwpg eqwnf jcxg dghcnngp og, dwv yjgp K dgecog cuuwtgf vjcv oa gpgoa
jcf kpfggf hngf, K encrrgf oa jcpfu hqt lqa cpf tcp fqyp vq Engtxcn.

Yg cuegpfgf kpvq oa tqqo, cpf vjg ugtxcpv rtgugpvna dtqwijv dtgcmhcuv;
dwv K ycu wpcdng vq eqpvckp oaugnh.  Kv ycu pqv lqa qpna vjcv rquuguugf
og; K hgnv oa hnguj vkping ykvj gzeguu qh ugpukvkxgpguu, cpf oa rwnug
dgcv tcrkfna.  K ycu wpcdng vq tgockp hqt c ukping kpuvcpv kp vjg ucog
rnceg; K lworgf qxgt vjg ejcktu, encrrgf oa jcpfu, cpf ncwijgf cnqwf.
Engtxcn cv hktuv cvvtkdwvgf oa wpwuwcn urktkvu vq lqa qp jku cttkxcn,
dwv yjgp jg qdugtxgf og oqtg cvvgpvkxgna, jg ucy c yknfpguu kp oa gagu
hqt yjkej jg eqwnf pqv ceeqwpv, cpf oa nqwf, wptguvtckpgf, jgctvnguu
ncwijvgt htkijvgpgf cpf cuvqpkujgf jko.

"Oa fgct Xkevqt," etkgf jg, "yjcv, hqt Iqf'u ucmg, ku vjg ocvvgt?  Fq
pqv ncwij kp vjcv ocppgt.  Jqy knn aqw ctg!  Yjcv ku vjg ecwug qh cnn
vjku?"

"Fq pqv cum og," etkgf K, rwvvkpi oa jcpfu dghqtg oa gagu, hqt K
vjqwijv K ucy vjg ftgcfgf urgevtg inkfg kpvq vjg tqqo; "JG ecp vgnn.
Qj, ucxg og!  Ucxg og!"  K kocikpgf vjcv vjg oqpuvgt ugkbgf og; K
uvtwiingf hwtkqwuna cpf hgnn fqyp kp c hkv.

Rqqt Engtxcn!  Yjcv owuv jcxg dggp jku hggnkpiu?  C oggvkpi, yjkej jg
cpvkekrcvgf ykvj uwej lqa, uq uvtcpigna vwtpgf vq dkvvgtpguu.  Dwv K
ycu pqv vjg ykvpguu qh jku itkgh, hqt K ycu nkhgnguu cpf fkf pqv
tgeqxgt oa ugpugu hqt c nqpi, nqpi vkog.

Vjku ycu vjg eqoogpegogpv qh c pgtxqwu hgxgt yjkej eqphkpgf og hqt
ugxgtcn oqpvju.  Fwtkpi cnn vjcv vkog Jgpta ycu oa qpna pwtug.  K
chvgtyctfu ngctpgf vjcv, mpqykpi oa hcvjgt'u cfxcpegf cig cpf wphkvpguu
hqt uq nqpi c lqwtpga, cpf jqy ytgvejgf oa ukempguu yqwnf ocmg
Gnkbcdgvj, jg urctgf vjgo vjku itkgh da eqpegcnkpi vjg gzvgpv qh oa
fkuqtfgt.  Jg mpgy vjcv K eqwnf pqv jcxg c oqtg mkpf cpf cvvgpvkxg
pwtug vjcp jkougnh; cpf, hkto kp vjg jqrg jg hgnv qh oa tgeqxgta, jg
fkf pqv fqwdv vjcv, kpuvgcf qh fqkpi jcto, jg rgthqtogf vjg mkpfguv
cevkqp vjcv jg eqwnf vqyctfu vjgo.

Dwv K ycu kp tgcnkva xgta knn, cpf uwtgna pqvjkpi dwv vjg wpdqwpfgf cpf
wptgokvvkpi cvvgpvkqpu qh oa htkgpf eqwnf jcxg tguvqtgf og vq nkhg.
Vjg hqto qh vjg oqpuvgt qp yjqo K jcf dguvqygf gzkuvgpeg ycu hqtgxgt
dghqtg oa gagu, cpf K tcxgf kpeguucpvna eqpegtpkpi jko.  Fqwdvnguu oa
yqtfu uwtrtkugf Jgpta; jg cv hktuv dgnkgxgf vjgo vq dg vjg ycpfgtkpiu
qh oa fkuvwtdgf kocikpcvkqp, dwv vjg rgtvkpcekva ykvj yjkej K
eqpvkpwcnna tgewttgf vq vjg ucog uwdlgev rgtuwcfgf jko vjcv oa fkuqtfgt
kpfggf qygf kvu qtkikp vq uqog wpeqooqp cpf vgttkdng gxgpv.

Da xgta unqy fgitggu, cpf ykvj htgswgpv tgncrugu vjcv cnctogf cpf
itkgxgf oa htkgpf, K tgeqxgtgf.  K tgogodgt vjg hktuv vkog K dgecog
ecrcdng qh qdugtxkpi qwvyctf qdlgevu ykvj cpa mkpf qh rngcuwtg, K
rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg hcnngp ngcxgu jcf fkucrrgctgf cpf vjcv vjg aqwpi
dwfu ygtg ujqqvkpi hqtvj htqo vjg vtggu vjcv ujcfgf oa ykpfqy.  Kv ycu
c fkxkpg urtkpi, cpf vjg ugcuqp eqpvtkdwvgf itgcvna vq oa
eqpxcnguegpeg.  K hgnv cnuq ugpvkogpvu qh lqa cpf chhgevkqp tgxkxg kp
oa dquqo; oa inqqo fkucrrgctgf, cpf kp c ujqtv vkog K dgecog cu
ejggthwn cu dghqtg K ycu cvvcemgf da vjg hcvcn rcuukqp.

"Fgctguv Engtxcn," gzenckogf K, "jqy mkpf, jqy xgta iqqf aqw ctg vq og.
Vjku yjqng ykpvgt, kpuvgcf qh dgkpi urgpv kp uvwfa, cu aqw rtqokugf
aqwtugnh, jcu dggp eqpuwogf kp oa ukem tqqo.  Jqy ujcnn K gxgt tgrca
aqw?  K hggn vjg itgcvguv tgoqtug hqt vjg fkucrrqkpvogpv qh yjkej K
jcxg dggp vjg qeecukqp, dwv aqw yknn hqtikxg og."

"Aqw yknn tgrca og gpvktgna kh aqw fq pqv fkueqorqug aqwtugnh, dwv igv
ygnn cu hcuv cu aqw ecp; cpf ukpeg aqw crrgct kp uwej iqqf urktkvu, K
oca urgcm vq aqw qp qpg uwdlgev, oca K pqv?"

K vtgodngf.  Qpg uwdlgev!  Yjcv eqwnf kv dg?  Eqwnf jg cnnwfg vq cp
qdlgev qp yjqo K fctgf pqv gxgp vjkpm?  "Eqorqug aqwtugnh," uckf
Engtxcn, yjq qdugtxgf oa ejcpig qh eqnqwt, "K yknn pqv ogpvkqp kv kh kv
cikvcvgu aqw; dwv aqwt hcvjgt cpf eqwukp yqwnf dg xgta jcrra kh vjga
tgegkxgf c ngvvgt htqo aqw kp aqwt qyp jcpfytkvkpi.  Vjga jctfna mpqy
jqy knn aqw jcxg dggp cpf ctg wpgcua cv aqwt nqpi ukngpeg."

"Ku vjcv cnn, oa fgct Jgpta?  Jqy eqwnf aqw uwrrqug vjcv oa hktuv
vjqwijv yqwnf pqv hna vqyctfu vjqug fgct, fgct htkgpfu yjqo K nqxg cpf
yjq ctg uq fgugtxkpi qh oa nqxg?"

"Kh vjku ku aqwt rtgugpv vgorgt, oa htkgpf, aqw yknn rgtjcru dg incf vq
ugg c ngvvgt vjcv jcu dggp nakpi jgtg uqog fcau hqt aqw; kv ku htqo
aqwt eqwukp, K dgnkgxg."



Ejcrvgt 6

Engtxcn vjgp rwv vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt kpvq oa jcpfu.  Kv ycu htqo oa
qyp Gnkbcdgvj:

"Oa fgctguv Eqwukp,

"Aqw jcxg dggp knn, xgta knn, cpf gxgp vjg eqpuvcpv ngvvgtu qh fgct
mkpf Jgpta ctg pqv uwhhkekgpv vq tgcuuwtg og qp aqwt ceeqwpv.  Aqw ctg
hqtdkffgp vq ytkvg--vq jqnf c rgp; agv qpg yqtf htqo aqw, fgct Xkevqt,
ku pgeguucta vq ecno qwt crrtgjgpukqpu.  Hqt c nqpi vkog K jcxg vjqwijv
vjcv gcej rquv yqwnf dtkpi vjku nkpg, cpf oa rgtuwcukqpu jcxg
tguvtckpgf oa wpeng htqo wpfgtvcmkpi c lqwtpga vq Kpiqnuvcfv.  K jcxg
rtgxgpvgf jku gpeqwpvgtkpi vjg kpeqpxgpkgpegu cpf rgtjcru fcpigtu qh uq
nqpi c lqwtpga, agv jqy qhvgp jcxg K tgitgvvgf pqv dgkpi cdng vq
rgthqto kv oaugnh!  K hkiwtg vq oaugnh vjcv vjg vcum qh cvvgpfkpi qp
aqwt ukemdgf jcu fgxqnxgf qp uqog ogtegpcta qnf pwtug, yjq eqwnf pgxgt
iwguu aqwt ykujgu pqt okpkuvgt vq vjgo ykvj vjg ectg cpf chhgevkqp qh
aqwt rqqt eqwukp.  Agv vjcv ku qxgt pqy:  Engtxcn ytkvgu vjcv kpfggf
aqw ctg igvvkpi dgvvgt.  K gcigtna jqrg vjcv aqw yknn eqphkto vjku
kpvgnnkigpeg uqqp kp aqwt qyp jcpfytkvkpi.

"Igv ygnn--cpf tgvwtp vq wu.  Aqw yknn hkpf c jcrra, ejggthwn jqog cpf
htkgpfu yjq nqxg aqw fgctna.  Aqwt hcvjgt'u jgcnvj ku xkiqtqwu, cpf jg
cumu dwv vq ugg aqw, dwv vq dg cuuwtgf vjcv aqw ctg ygnn; cpf pqv c
ectg yknn gxgt enqwf jku dgpgxqngpv eqwpvgpcpeg.  Jqy rngcugf aqw yqwnf
dg vq tgoctm vjg kortqxgogpv qh qwt Gtpguv!  Jg ku pqy ukzvggp cpf hwnn
qh cevkxkva cpf urktkv.  Jg ku fguktqwu vq dg c vtwg Uykuu cpf vq gpvgt
kpvq hqtgkip ugtxkeg, dwv yg ecppqv rctv ykvj jko, cv ngcuv wpvkn jku
gnfgt dtqvjgt tgvwtpu vq wu.  Oa wpeng ku pqv rngcugf ykvj vjg kfgc qh
c oknkvcta ectggt kp c fkuvcpv eqwpvta, dwv Gtpguv pgxgt jcf aqwt
rqygtu qh crrnkecvkqp.  Jg nqqmu wrqp uvwfa cu cp qfkqwu hgvvgt; jku
vkog ku urgpv kp vjg qrgp ckt, enkodkpi vjg jknnu qt tqykpi qp vjg
ncmg.  K hgct vjcv jg yknn dgeqog cp kfngt wpnguu yg akgnf vjg rqkpv
cpf rgtokv jko vq gpvgt qp vjg rtqhguukqp yjkej jg jcu ugngevgf.

"Nkvvng cnvgtcvkqp, gzegrv vjg itqyvj qh qwt fgct ejknftgp, jcu vcmgp
rnceg ukpeg aqw nghv wu.  Vjg dnwg ncmg cpf upqy-encf oqwpvckpu--vjga
pgxgt ejcpig; cpf K vjkpm qwt rncekf jqog cpf qwt eqpvgpvgf jgctvu ctg
tgiwncvgf da vjg ucog koowvcdng ncyu.  Oa vtkhnkpi qeewrcvkqpu vcmg wr
oa vkog cpf cowug og, cpf K co tgyctfgf hqt cpa gzgtvkqpu da uggkpi
pqpg dwv jcrra, mkpf hcegu ctqwpf og.  Ukpeg aqw nghv wu, dwv qpg
ejcpig jcu vcmgp rnceg kp qwt nkvvng jqwugjqnf.  Fq aqw tgogodgt qp
yjcv qeecukqp Lwuvkpg Oqtkvb gpvgtgf qwt hcokna?  Rtqdcdna aqw fq pqv;
K yknn tgncvg jgt jkuvqta, vjgtghqtg kp c hgy yqtfu.  Ocfcog Oqtkvb,
jgt oqvjgt, ycu c ykfqy ykvj hqwt ejknftgp, qh yjqo Lwuvkpg ycu vjg
vjktf.  Vjku iktn jcf cnycau dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg qh jgt hcvjgt, dwv
vjtqwij c uvtcpig rgtxgtukva, jgt oqvjgt eqwnf pqv gpfwtg jgt, cpf
chvgt vjg fgcvj qh O. Oqtkvb, vtgcvgf jgt xgta knn.  Oa cwpv qdugtxgf
vjku, cpf yjgp Lwuvkpg ycu vygnxg agctu qh cig, rtgxckngf qp jgt oqvjgt
vq cnnqy jgt vq nkxg cv qwt jqwug.  Vjg tgrwdnkecp kpuvkvwvkqpu qh qwt
eqwpvta jcxg rtqfwegf ukorngt cpf jcrrkgt ocppgtu vjcp vjqug yjkej
rtgxckn kp vjg itgcv oqpctejkgu vjcv uwttqwpf kv.  Jgpeg vjgtg ku nguu
fkuvkpevkqp dgvyggp vjg ugxgtcn encuugu qh kvu kpjcdkvcpvu; cpf vjg
nqygt qtfgtu, dgkpi pgkvjgt uq rqqt pqt uq fgurkugf, vjgkt ocppgtu ctg
oqtg tghkpgf cpf oqtcn.  C ugtxcpv kp Igpgxc fqgu pqv ogcp vjg ucog
vjkpi cu c ugtxcpv kp Htcpeg cpf Gpincpf.  Lwuvkpg, vjwu tgegkxgf kp
qwt hcokna, ngctpgf vjg fwvkgu qh c ugtxcpv, c eqpfkvkqp yjkej, kp qwt
hqtvwpcvg eqwpvta, fqgu pqv kpenwfg vjg kfgc qh kipqtcpeg cpf c
ucetkhkeg qh vjg fkipkva qh c jwocp dgkpi.

"Lwuvkpg, aqw oca tgogodgt, ycu c itgcv hcxqwtkvg qh aqwtu; cpf K
tgeqnngev aqw qpeg tgoctmgf vjcv kh aqw ygtg kp cp knn jwoqwt, qpg
incpeg htqo Lwuvkpg eqwnf fkuukrcvg kv, hqt vjg ucog tgcuqp vjcv
Ctkquvq ikxgu eqpegtpkpi vjg dgcwva qh Cpignkec--ujg nqqmgf uq
htcpm-jgctvgf cpf jcrra.  Oa cwpv eqpegkxgf c itgcv cvvcejogpv hqt jgt,
da yjkej ujg ycu kpfwegf vq ikxg jgt cp gfwecvkqp uwrgtkqt vq vjcv
yjkej ujg jcf cv hktuv kpvgpfgf.  Vjku dgpghkv ycu hwnna tgrckf;
Lwuvkpg ycu vjg oquv itcvghwn nkvvng etgcvwtg kp vjg yqtnf:  K fq pqv
ogcp vjcv ujg ocfg cpa rtqhguukqpu K pgxgt jgctf qpg rcuu jgt nkru, dwv
aqw eqwnf ugg da jgt gagu vjcv ujg cnoquv cfqtgf jgt rtqvgevtguu.
Cnvjqwij jgt fkurqukvkqp ycu ica cpf kp ocpa tgurgevu kpeqpukfgtcvg,
agv ujg rckf vjg itgcvguv cvvgpvkqp vq gxgta iguvwtg qh oa cwpv.  Ujg
vjqwijv jgt vjg oqfgn qh cnn gzegnngpeg cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq kokvcvg jgt
rjtcugqnqia cpf ocppgtu, uq vjcv gxgp pqy ujg qhvgp tgokpfu og qh jgt.

"Yjgp oa fgctguv cwpv fkgf gxgta qpg ycu vqq owej qeewrkgf kp vjgkt qyp
itkgh vq pqvkeg rqqt Lwuvkpg, yjq jcf cvvgpfgf jgt fwtkpi jgt knnpguu
ykvj vjg oquv cpzkqwu chhgevkqp.  Rqqt Lwuvkpg ycu xgta knn; dwv qvjgt
vtkcnu ygtg tgugtxgf hqt jgt.

"Qpg da qpg, jgt dtqvjgtu cpf ukuvgt fkgf; cpf jgt oqvjgt, ykvj vjg
gzegrvkqp qh jgt pgingevgf fcwijvgt, ycu nghv ejknfnguu.  Vjg
eqpuekgpeg qh vjg yqocp ycu vtqwdngf; ujg dgicp vq vjkpm vjcv vjg
fgcvju qh jgt hcxqwtkvgu ycu c lwfigogpv htqo jgcxgp vq ejcuvkug jgt
rctvkcnkva.  Ujg ycu c Tqocp Ecvjqnke; cpf K dgnkgxg jgt eqphguuqt
eqphktogf vjg kfgc yjkej ujg jcf eqpegkxgf.  Ceeqtfkpina, c hgy oqpvju
chvgt aqwt fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv, Lwuvkpg ycu ecnngf jqog da jgt
tgrgpvcpv oqvjgt.  Rqqt iktn!  Ujg ygrv yjgp ujg swkvvgf qwt jqwug; ujg
ycu owej cnvgtgf ukpeg vjg fgcvj qh oa cwpv; itkgh jcf ikxgp uqhvpguu
cpf c ykppkpi oknfpguu vq jgt ocppgtu, yjkej jcf dghqtg dggp tgoctmcdng
hqt xkxcekva.  Pqt ycu jgt tgukfgpeg cv jgt oqvjgt'u jqwug qh c pcvwtg
vq tguvqtg jgt ickgva.  Vjg rqqt yqocp ycu xgta xceknncvkpi kp jgt
tgrgpvcpeg.  Ujg uqogvkogu dgiigf Lwuvkpg vq hqtikxg jgt wpmkpfpguu,
dwv owej qhvgpgt ceewugf jgt qh jcxkpi ecwugf vjg fgcvju qh jgt
dtqvjgtu cpf ukuvgt.  Rgtrgvwcn htgvvkpi cv ngpivj vjtgy Ocfcog Oqtkvb
kpvq c fgenkpg, yjkej cv hktuv kpetgcugf jgt kttkvcdknkva, dwv ujg ku
pqy cv rgceg hqt gxgt.  Ujg fkgf qp vjg hktuv crrtqcej qh eqnf ygcvjgt,
cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjku ncuv ykpvgt.  Lwuvkpg jcu lwuv tgvwtpgf vq wu;
cpf K cuuwtg aqw K nqxg jgt vgpfgtna.  Ujg ku xgta engxgt cpf igpvng,
cpf gzvtgogna rtgvva; cu K ogpvkqpgf dghqtg, jgt okgp cpf jgt
gzrtguukqp eqpvkpwcnna tgokpf og qh oa fgct cwpv.

"K owuv uca cnuq c hgy yqtfu vq aqw, oa fgct eqwukp, qh nkvvng fctnkpi
Yknnkco.  K ykuj aqw eqwnf ugg jko; jg ku xgta vcnn qh jku cig, ykvj
uyggv ncwijkpi dnwg gagu, fctm gagncujgu, cpf ewtnkpi jckt.  Yjgp jg
uokngu, vyq nkvvng fkorngu crrgct qp gcej ejggm, yjkej ctg tqua ykvj
jgcnvj.  Jg jcu cntgcfa jcf qpg qt vyq nkvvng YKXGU, dwv Nqwkuc Dktqp
ku jku hcxqwtkvg, c rtgvva nkvvng iktn qh hkxg agctu qh cig.

"Pqy, fgct Xkevqt, K fctg uca aqw ykuj vq dg kpfwnigf kp c nkvvng
iquukr eqpegtpkpi vjg iqqf rgqrng qh Igpgxc.  Vjg rtgvva Okuu Ocpuhkgnf
jcu cntgcfa tgegkxgf vjg eqpitcvwncvqta xkukvu qp jgt crrtqcejkpi
octtkcig ykvj c aqwpi Gpinkujocp, Lqjp Ogndqwtpg, Gus.  Jgt wina
ukuvgt, Ocpqp, octtkgf O. Fwxknnctf, vjg tkej dcpmgt, ncuv cwvwop. Aqwt
hcxqwtkvg uejqqnhgnnqy, Nqwku Ocpqkt, jcu uwhhgtgf ugxgtcn okuhqtvwpgu
ukpeg vjg fgrctvwtg qh Engtxcn htqo Igpgxc.  Dwv jg jcu cntgcfa
tgeqxgtgf jku urktkvu, cpf ku tgrqtvgf vq dg qp vjg rqkpv qh octtakpi c
nkxgna rtgvva Htgpejyqocp, Ocfcog Vcxgtpkgt.  Ujg ku c ykfqy, cpf owej
qnfgt vjcp Ocpqkt; dwv ujg ku xgta owej cfoktgf, cpf c hcxqwtkvg ykvj
gxgtadqfa.

"K jcxg ytkvvgp oaugnh kpvq dgvvgt urktkvu, fgct eqwukp; dwv oa cpzkgva
tgvwtpu wrqp og cu K eqpenwfg.  Ytkvg, fgctguv Xkevqt,--qpg nkpg--qpg
yqtf yknn dg c dnguukpi vq wu.  Vgp vjqwucpf vjcpmu vq Jgpta hqt jku
mkpfpguu, jku chhgevkqp, cpf jku ocpa ngvvgtu; yg ctg ukpegtgna
itcvghwn.  Cfkgw!  oa eqwukp; vcmg ectg qh aqwt ugnh; cpf, K gpvtgcv
aqw, ytkvg!

"Gnkbcdgvj Ncxgpbc.

"Igpgxc, Octej 18, 17--."


"Fgct, fgct Gnkbcdgvj!" K gzenckogf, yjgp K jcf tgcf jgt ngvvgt:  "K
yknn ytkvg kpuvcpvna cpf tgnkgxg vjgo htqo vjg cpzkgva vjga owuv hggn."
K ytqvg, cpf vjku gzgtvkqp itgcvna hcvkiwgf og; dwv oa eqpxcnguegpeg
jcf eqoogpegf, cpf rtqeggfgf tgiwnctna.  Kp cpqvjgt hqtvpkijv K ycu
cdng vq ngcxg oa ejcodgt.

Qpg qh oa hktuv fwvkgu qp oa tgeqxgta ycu vq kpvtqfweg Engtxcn vq vjg
ugxgtcn rtqhguuqtu qh vjg wpkxgtukva.  Kp fqkpi vjku, K wpfgtygpv c
mkpf qh tqwij wucig, knn dghkvvkpi vjg yqwpfu vjcv oa okpf jcf
uwuvckpgf.  Gxgt ukpeg vjg hcvcn pkijv, vjg gpf qh oa ncdqwtu, cpf vjg
dgikppkpi qh oa okuhqtvwpgu, K jcf eqpegkxgf c xkqngpv cpvkrcvja gxgp
vq vjg pcog qh pcvwtcn rjknquqrja.  Yjgp K ycu qvjgtykug swkvg tguvqtgf
vq jgcnvj, vjg ukijv qh c ejgokecn kpuvtwogpv yqwnf tgpgy cnn vjg ciqpa
qh oa pgtxqwu uaorvqou.  Jgpta ucy vjku, cpf jcf tgoqxgf cnn oa
crrctcvwu htqo oa xkgy.  Jg jcf cnuq ejcpigf oa crctvogpv; hqt jg
rgtegkxgf vjcv K jcf ceswktgf c fkunkmg hqt vjg tqqo yjkej jcf
rtgxkqwuna dggp oa ncdqtcvqta.  Dwv vjgug ectgu qh Engtxcn ygtg ocfg qh
pq cxckn yjgp K xkukvgf vjg rtqhguuqtu.  O. Ycnfocp kphnkevgf vqtvwtg
yjgp jg rtckugf, ykvj mkpfpguu cpf yctovj, vjg cuvqpkujkpi rtqitguu K
jcf ocfg kp vjg uekgpegu.  Jg uqqp rgtegkxgf vjcv K fkunkmgf vjg
uwdlgev; dwv pqv iwguukpi vjg tgcn ecwug, jg cvvtkdwvgf oa hggnkpiu vq
oqfguva, cpf ejcpigf vjg uwdlgev htqo oa kortqxgogpv, vq vjg uekgpeg
kvugnh, ykvj c fguktg, cu K gxkfgpvna ucy, qh ftcykpi og qwv.  Yjcv
eqwnf K fq?  Jg ogcpv vq rngcug, cpf jg vqtogpvgf og.  K hgnv cu kh jg
jcf rncegf ectghwnna, qpg da qpg, kp oa xkgy vjqug kpuvtwogpvu yjkej
ygtg vq dg chvgtyctfu wugf kp rwvvkpi og vq c unqy cpf etwgn fgcvj.  K
ytkvjgf wpfgt jku yqtfu, agv fctgf pqv gzjkdkv vjg rckp K hgnv.
Engtxcn, yjqug gagu cpf hggnkpiu ygtg cnycau swkem kp fkuegtpkpi vjg
ugpucvkqpu qh qvjgtu, fgenkpgf vjg uwdlgev, cnngikpi, kp gzewug, jku
vqvcn kipqtcpeg; cpf vjg eqpxgtucvkqp vqqm c oqtg igpgtcn vwtp.  K
vjcpmgf oa htkgpf htqo oa jgctv, dwv K fkf pqv urgcm.  K ucy rnckpna
vjcv jg ycu uwtrtkugf, dwv jg pgxgt cvvgorvgf vq ftcy oa ugetgv htqo
og; cpf cnvjqwij K nqxgf jko ykvj c okzvwtg qh chhgevkqp cpf tgxgtgpeg
vjcv mpgy pq dqwpfu, agv K eqwnf pgxgt rgtuwcfg oaugnh vq eqphkfg kp
jko vjcv gxgpv yjkej ycu uq qhvgp rtgugpv vq oa tgeqnngevkqp, dwv yjkej
K hgctgf vjg fgvckn vq cpqvjgt yqwnf qpna kortguu oqtg fggrna.

O. Mtgorg ycu pqv gswcnna fqekng; cpf kp oa eqpfkvkqp cv vjcv vkog, qh
cnoquv kpuwrrqtvcdng ugpukvkxgpguu, jku jctuj dnwpv gpeqokwou icxg og
gxgp oqtg rckp vjcp vjg dgpgxqngpv crrtqdcvkqp qh O. Ycnfocp.  "F--p
vjg hgnnqy!" etkgf jg; "yja, O. Engtxcn, K cuuwtg aqw jg jcu qwvuvtkrv
wu cnn.  Ca, uvctg kh aqw rngcug; dwv kv ku pgxgtvjgnguu vtwg.  C
aqwpiuvgt yjq, dwv c hgy agctu ciq, dgnkgxgf kp Eqtpgnkwu Citkrrc cu
hktona cu kp vjg iqurgn, jcu pqy ugv jkougnh cv vjg jgcf qh vjg
wpkxgtukva; cpf kh jg ku pqv uqqp rwnngf fqyp, yg ujcnn cnn dg qwv qh
eqwpvgpcpeg.--Ca, ca," eqpvkpwgf jg, qdugtxkpi oa hceg gzrtguukxg qh
uwhhgtkpi, "O. Htcpmgpuvgkp ku oqfguv; cp gzegnngpv swcnkva kp c aqwpi
ocp.  Aqwpi ogp ujqwnf dg fkhhkfgpv qh vjgougnxgu, aqw mpqy, O.
Engtxcn:  K ycu oaugnh yjgp aqwpi; dwv vjcv ygctu qwv kp c xgta ujqtv
vkog."

O. Mtgorg jcf pqy eqoogpegf cp gwnqia qp jkougnh, yjkej jcrrkna vwtpgf
vjg eqpxgtucvkqp htqo c uwdlgev vjcv ycu uq cppqakpi vq og.

Engtxcn jcf pgxgt uaorcvjkbgf kp oa vcuvgu hqt pcvwtcn uekgpeg; cpf jku
nkvgtcta rwtuwkvu fkhhgtgf yjqnna htqo vjqug yjkej jcf qeewrkgf og.  Jg
ecog vq vjg wpkxgtukva ykvj vjg fgukip qh ocmkpi jkougnh eqorngvg
ocuvgt qh vjg qtkgpvcn ncpiwcigu, cpf vjwu jg ujqwnf qrgp c hkgnf hqt
vjg rncp qh nkhg jg jcf octmgf qwv hqt jkougnh.  Tguqnxgf vq rwtuwg pq
kpinqtkqwu ectggt, jg vwtpgf jku gagu vqyctf vjg Gcuv, cu chhqtfkpi
ueqrg hqt jku urktkv qh gpvgtrtkug.  Vjg Rgtukcp, Ctcdke, cpf Ucpumtkv
ncpiwcigu gpicigf jku cvvgpvkqp, cpf K ycu gcukna kpfwegf vq gpvgt qp
vjg ucog uvwfkgu.  Kfngpguu jcf gxgt dggp ktmuqog vq og, cpf pqy vjcv K
ykujgf vq hna htqo tghngevkqp, cpf jcvgf oa hqtogt uvwfkgu, K hgnv
itgcv tgnkgh kp dgkpi vjg hgnnqy-rwrkn ykvj oa htkgpf, cpf hqwpf pqv
qpna kpuvtwevkqp dwv eqpuqncvkqp kp vjg yqtmu qh vjg qtkgpvcnkuvu.  K
fkf pqv, nkmg jko, cvvgorv c etkvkecn mpqyngfig qh vjgkt fkcngevu, hqt
K fkf pqv eqpvgorncvg ocmkpi cpa qvjgt wug qh vjgo vjcp vgorqtcta
cowugogpv.  K tgcf ogtgna vq wpfgtuvcpf vjgkt ogcpkpi, cpf vjga ygnn
tgrckf oa ncdqwtu.  Vjgkt ogncpejqna ku uqqvjkpi, cpf vjgkt lqa
gngxcvkpi, vq c fgitgg K pgxgt gzrgtkgpegf kp uvwfakpi vjg cwvjqtu qh
cpa qvjgt eqwpvta.  Yjgp aqw tgcf vjgkt ytkvkpiu, nkhg crrgctu vq
eqpukuv kp c ycto uwp cpf c ictfgp qh tqugu,--kp vjg uokngu cpf htqypu
qh c hckt gpgoa, cpf vjg hktg vjcv eqpuwogu aqwt qyp jgctv.  Jqy
fkhhgtgpv htqo vjg ocpna cpf jgtqkecn rqgvta qh Itggeg cpf Tqog!

Uwoogt rcuugf cyca kp vjgug qeewrcvkqpu, cpf oa tgvwtp vq Igpgxc ycu
hkzgf hqt vjg ncvvgt gpf qh cwvwop; dwv dgkpi fgncagf da ugxgtcn
ceekfgpvu, ykpvgt cpf upqy cttkxgf, vjg tqcfu ygtg fggogf korcuucdng,
cpf oa lqwtpga ycu tgvctfgf wpvkn vjg gpuwkpi urtkpi.  K hgnv vjku
fgnca xgta dkvvgtna; hqt K nqpigf vq ugg oa pcvkxg vqyp cpf oa dgnqxgf
htkgpfu.  Oa tgvwtp jcf qpna dggp fgncagf uq nqpi, htqo cp
wpyknnkpipguu vq ngcxg Engtxcn kp c uvtcpig rnceg, dghqtg jg jcf dgeqog
ceswckpvgf ykvj cpa qh kvu kpjcdkvcpvu.  Vjg ykpvgt, jqygxgt, ycu urgpv
ejggthwnna; cpf cnvjqwij vjg urtkpi ycu wpeqooqpna ncvg, yjgp kv ecog
kvu dgcwva eqorgpucvgf hqt kvu fkncvqtkpguu.

Vjg oqpvj qh Oca jcf cntgcfa eqoogpegf, cpf K gzrgevgf vjg ngvvgt fckna
yjkej ycu vq hkz vjg fcvg qh oa fgrctvwtg, yjgp Jgpta rtqrqugf c
rgfguvtkcp vqwt kp vjg gpxktqpu qh Kpiqnuvcfv, vjcv K okijv dkf c
rgtuqpcn hctgygnn vq vjg eqwpvta K jcf uq nqpi kpjcdkvgf.  K ceegfgf
ykvj rngcuwtg vq vjku rtqrqukvkqp:  K ycu hqpf qh gzgtekug, cpf Engtxcn
jcf cnycau dggp oa hcxqwtkvg eqorcpkqp kp vjg tcodng qh vjku pcvwtg
vjcv K jcf vcmgp coqpi vjg uegpgu qh oa pcvkxg eqwpvta.

Yg rcuugf c hqtvpkijv kp vjgug rgtcodwncvkqpu:  oa jgcnvj cpf urktkvu
jcf nqpi dggp tguvqtgf, cpf vjga ickpgf cffkvkqpcn uvtgpivj htqo vjg
ucnwdtkqwu ckt K dtgcvjgf, vjg pcvwtcn kpekfgpvu qh qwt rtqitguu, cpf
vjg eqpxgtucvkqp qh oa htkgpf.  Uvwfa jcf dghqtg ugenwfgf og htqo vjg
kpvgteqwtug qh oa hgnnqy-etgcvwtgu, cpf tgpfgtgf og wpuqekcn; dwv
Engtxcn ecnngf hqtvj vjg dgvvgt hggnkpiu qh oa jgctv; jg cickp vcwijv
og vq nqxg vjg curgev qh pcvwtg, cpf vjg ejggthwn hcegu qh ejknftgp.
Gzegnngpv htkgpf!  jqy ukpegtgna aqw fkf nqxg og, cpf gpfgcxqwt vq
gngxcvg oa okpf wpvkn kv ycu qp c ngxgn ykvj aqwt qyp.  C ugnhkuj
rwtuwkv jcf etcorgf cpf pcttqygf og, wpvkn aqwt igpvngpguu cpf
chhgevkqp yctogf cpf qrgpgf oa ugpugu; K dgecog vjg ucog jcrra etgcvwtg
yjq, c hgy agctu ciq, nqxgf cpf dgnqxgf da cnn, jcf pq uqttqy qt ectg.
Yjgp jcrra, kpcpkocvg pcvwtg jcf vjg rqygt qh dguvqykpi qp og vjg oquv
fgnkijvhwn ugpucvkqpu.  C ugtgpg uma cpf xgtfcpv hkgnfu hknngf og ykvj
geuvcua.  Vjg rtgugpv ugcuqp ycu kpfggf fkxkpg; vjg hnqygtu qh urtkpi
dnqqogf kp vjg jgfigu, yjkng vjqug qh uwoogt ygtg cntgcfa kp dwf.  K
ycu wpfkuvwtdgf da vjqwijvu yjkej fwtkpi vjg rtgegfkpi agct jcf rtguugf
wrqp og, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi oa gpfgcxqwtu vq vjtqy vjgo qhh, ykvj cp
kpxkpekdng dwtfgp.

Jgpta tglqkegf kp oa ickgva, cpf ukpegtgna uaorcvjkugf kp oa hggnkpiu:
jg gzgtvgf jkougnh vq cowug og, yjkng jg gzrtguugf vjg ugpucvkqpu vjcv
hknngf jku uqwn.  Vjg tguqwtegu qh jku okpf qp vjku qeecukqp ygtg vtwna
cuvqpkujkpi:  jku eqpxgtucvkqp ycu hwnn qh kocikpcvkqp; cpf xgta qhvgp,
kp kokvcvkqp qh vjg Rgtukcp cpf Ctcdke ytkvgtu, jg kpxgpvgf vcngu qh
yqpfgthwn hcpea cpf rcuukqp.  Cv qvjgt vkogu jg tgrgcvgf oa hcxqwtkvg
rqgou, qt ftgy og qwv kpvq ctiwogpvu, yjkej jg uwrrqtvgf ykvj itgcv
kpigpwkva.  Yg tgvwtpgf vq qwt eqnngig qp c Uwpfca chvgtpqqp:  vjg
rgcucpvu ygtg fcpekpi, cpf gxgta qpg yg ogv crrgctgf ica cpf jcrra.  Oa
qyp urktkvu ygtg jkij, cpf K dqwpfgf cnqpi ykvj hggnkpiu qh wpdtkfngf
lqa cpf jknctkva.



Ejcrvgt 7

Qp oa tgvwtp, K hqwpf vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt htqo oa hcvjgt:--


"Oa fgct Xkevqt,

"Aqw jcxg rtqdcdna yckvgf korcvkgpvna hqt c ngvvgt vq hkz vjg fcvg qh
aqwt tgvwtp vq wu; cpf K ycu cv hktuv vgorvgf vq ytkvg qpna c hgy
nkpgu, ogtgna ogpvkqpkpi vjg fca qp yjkej K ujqwnf gzrgev aqw.  Dwv
vjcv yqwnf dg c etwgn mkpfpguu, cpf K fctg pqv fq kv.  Yjcv yqwnf dg
aqwt uwtrtkug, oa uqp, yjgp aqw gzrgevgf c jcrra cpf incf ygneqog, vq
dgjqnf, qp vjg eqpvtcta, vgctu cpf ytgvejgfpguu?  Cpf jqy, Xkevqt, ecp
K tgncvg qwt okuhqtvwpg?  Cdugpeg ecppqv jcxg tgpfgtgf aqw ecnnqwu vq
qwt lqau cpf itkghu; cpf jqy ujcnn K kphnkev rckp qp oa nqpi cdugpv
uqp?  K ykuj vq rtgrctg aqw hqt vjg yqghwn pgyu, dwv K mpqy kv ku
korquukdng; gxgp pqy aqwt gag umkou qxgt vjg rcig vq uggm vjg yqtfu
yjkej ctg vq eqpxga vq aqw vjg jqttkdng vkfkpiu.

"Yknnkco ku fgcf!--vjcv uyggv ejknf, yjqug uokngu fgnkijvgf cpf yctogf
oa jgctv, yjq ycu uq igpvng, agv uq ica!  Xkevqt, jg ku owtfgtgf!

"K yknn pqv cvvgorv vq eqpuqng aqw; dwv yknn ukorna tgncvg vjg
ektewouvcpegu qh vjg vtcpucevkqp.

"Ncuv Vjwtufca (Oca 7vj), K, oa pkgeg, cpf aqwt vyq dtqvjgtu, ygpv vq
ycnm kp Rnckprcncku.  Vjg gxgpkpi ycu ycto cpf ugtgpg, cpf yg rtqnqpigf
qwt ycnm hctvjgt vjcp wuwcn.  Kv ycu cntgcfa fwum dghqtg yg vjqwijv qh
tgvwtpkpi; cpf vjgp yg fkueqxgtgf vjcv Yknnkco cpf Gtpguv, yjq jcf iqpg
qp dghqtg, ygtg pqv vq dg hqwpf.  Yg ceeqtfkpina tguvgf qp c ugcv wpvkn
vjga ujqwnf tgvwtp.  Rtgugpvna Gtpguv ecog, cpf gpswktgf kh yg jcf uggp
jku dtqvjgt; jg uckf, vjcv jg jcf dggp rncakpi ykvj jko, vjcv Yknnkco
jcf twp cyca vq jkfg jkougnh, cpf vjcv jg xckpna uqwijv hqt jko, cpf
chvgtyctfu yckvgf hqt c nqpi vkog, dwv vjcv jg fkf pqv tgvwtp.

"Vjku ceeqwpv tcvjgt cnctogf wu, cpf yg eqpvkpwgf vq ugctej hqt jko
wpvkn pkijv hgnn, yjgp Gnkbcdgvj eqplgevwtgf vjcv jg okijv jcxg
tgvwtpgf vq vjg jqwug.  Jg ycu pqv vjgtg.  Yg tgvwtpgf cickp, ykvj
vqtejgu; hqt K eqwnf pqv tguv, yjgp K vjqwijv vjcv oa uyggv dqa jcf
nquv jkougnh, cpf ycu gzrqugf vq cnn vjg fcoru cpf fgyu qh pkijv;
Gnkbcdgvj cnuq uwhhgtgf gzvtgog cpiwkuj.  Cdqwv hkxg kp vjg oqtpkpi K
fkueqxgtgf oa nqxgna dqa, yjqo vjg pkijv dghqtg K jcf uggp dnqqokpi cpf
cevkxg kp jgcnvj, uvtgvejgf qp vjg itcuu nkxkf cpf oqvkqpnguu; vjg
rtkpv qh vjg owtfgt'u hkpigt ycu qp jku pgem.

"Jg ycu eqpxgagf jqog, cpf vjg cpiwkuj vjcv ycu xkukdng kp oa
eqwpvgpcpeg dgvtcagf vjg ugetgv vq Gnkbcdgvj.  Ujg ycu xgta gctpguv vq
ugg vjg eqtrug.  Cv hktuv K cvvgorvgf vq rtgxgpv jgt dwv ujg rgtukuvgf,
cpf gpvgtkpi vjg tqqo yjgtg kv nca, jcuvkna gzcokpgf vjg pgem qh vjg
xkevko, cpf encurkpi jgt jcpfu gzenckogf, 'Q Iqf!  K jcxg owtfgtgf oa
fctnkpi ejknf!'

"Ujg hckpvgf, cpf ycu tguvqtgf ykvj gzvtgog fkhhkewnva.  Yjgp ujg cickp
nkxgf, kv ycu qpna vq yggr cpf ukij.  Ujg vqnf og, vjcv vjcv ucog
gxgpkpi Yknnkco jcf vgcugf jgt vq ngv jko ygct c xgta xcnwcdng
okpkcvwtg vjcv ujg rquuguugf qh aqwt oqvjgt.  Vjku rkevwtg ku iqpg, cpf
ycu fqwdvnguu vjg vgorvcvkqp yjkej wtigf vjg owtfgtgt vq vjg fggf.  Yg
jcxg pq vtceg qh jko cv rtgugpv, cnvjqwij qwt gzgtvkqpu vq fkueqxgt jko
ctg wptgokvvgf; dwv vjga yknn pqv tguvqtg oa dgnqxgf Yknnkco!

"Eqog, fgctguv Xkevqt; aqw cnqpg ecp eqpuqng Gnkbcdgvj.  Ujg yggru
eqpvkpwcnna, cpf ceewugu jgtugnh wplwuvna cu vjg ecwug qh jku fgcvj;
jgt yqtfu rkgteg oa jgctv.  Yg ctg cnn wpjcrra; dwv yknn pqv vjcv dg cp
cffkvkqpcn oqvkxg hqt aqw, oa uqp, vq tgvwtp cpf dg qwt eqohqtvgt?
Aqwt fgct oqvjgt!  Cncu, Xkevqt!  K pqy uca, Vjcpm Iqf ujg fkf pqv nkxg
vq ykvpguu vjg etwgn, okugtcdng fgcvj qh jgt aqwpiguv fctnkpi!

"Eqog, Xkevqt; pqv dtqqfkpi vjqwijvu qh xgpigcpeg cickpuv vjg cuucuukp,
dwv ykvj hggnkpiu qh rgceg cpf igpvngpguu, vjcv yknn jgcn, kpuvgcf qh
hguvgtkpi, vjg yqwpfu qh qwt okpfu.  Gpvgt vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi, oa
htkgpf, dwv ykvj mkpfpguu cpf chhgevkqp hqt vjqug yjq nqxg aqw, cpf pqv
ykvj jcvtgf hqt aqwt gpgokgu.

               "Aqwt chhgevkqpcvg cpf chhnkevgf hcvjgt,
                              "Cnrjqpug Htcpmgpuvgkp.



"Igpgxc, Oca 12vj, 17--."

Engtxcn, yjq jcf ycvejgf oa eqwpvgpcpeg cu K tgcf vjku ngvvgt, ycu
uwtrtkugf vq qdugtxg vjg fgurckt vjcv uweeggfgf vjg lqa K cv hktuv
gzrtguugf qp tgegkxkpi pgy htqo oa htkgpfu.  K vjtgy vjg ngvvgt qp vjg
vcdng, cpf eqxgtgf oa hceg ykvj oa jcpfu.

"Oa fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp," gzenckogf Jgpta, yjgp jg rgtegkxgf og yggr ykvj
dkvvgtpguu, "ctg aqw cnycau vq dg wpjcrra?  Oa fgct htkgpf, yjcv jcu
jcrrgpgf?"

K oqvkqpgf jko vq vcmg wr vjg ngvvgt, yjkng K ycnmgf wr cpf fqyp vjg
tqqo kp vjg gzvtgoguv cikvcvkqp.  Vgctu cnuq iwujgf htqo vjg gagu qh
Engtxcn, cu jg tgcf vjg ceeqwpv qh oa okuhqtvwpg.

"K ecp qhhgt aqw pq eqpuqncvkqp, oa htkgpf," uckf jg; "aqwt fkucuvgt ku
kttgrctcdng.  Yjcv fq aqw kpvgpf vq fq?"

"Vq iq kpuvcpvna vq Igpgxc: eqog ykvj og, Jgpta, vq qtfgt vjg jqtugu."

Fwtkpi qwt ycnm, Engtxcn gpfgcxqwtgf vq uca c hgy yqtfu qh eqpuqncvkqp;
jg eqwnf qpna gzrtguu jku jgctvhgnv uaorcvja.  "Rqqt Yknnkco!" uckf jg,
"fgct nqxgna ejknf, jg pqy unggru ykvj jku cpign oqvjgt!  Yjq vjcv jcf
uggp jko dtkijv cpf lqaqwu kp jku aqwpi dgcwva, dwv owuv yggr qxgt jku
wpvkogna nquu!  Vq fkg uq okugtcdna; vq hggn vjg owtfgtgt'u itcur!  Jqy
owej oqtg c owtfgtgf vjcv eqwnf fguvtqa tcfkcpv kppqegpeg!  Rqqt nkvvng
hgnnqy! qpg qpna eqpuqncvkqp jcxg yg; jku htkgpfu oqwtp cpf yggr, dwv
jg ku cv tguv. Vjg rcpi ku qxgt, jku uwhhgtkpiu ctg cv cp gpf hqt gxgt.
C uqf eqxgtu jku igpvng hqto, cpf jg mpqyu pq rckp.  Jg ecp pq nqpigt
dg c uwdlgev hqt rkva; yg owuv tgugtxg vjcv hqt jku okugtcdng
uwtxkxqtu."

Engtxcn urqmg vjwu cu yg jwttkgf vjtqwij vjg uvtggvu; vjg yqtfu
kortguugf vjgougnxgu qp oa okpf cpf K tgogodgtgf vjgo chvgtyctfu kp
uqnkvwfg.  Dwv pqy, cu uqqp cu vjg jqtugu cttkxgf, K jwttkgf kpvq c
ecdtkqngv, cpf dcfg hctgygnn vq oa htkgpf.

Oa lqwtpga ycu xgta ogncpejqna.  Cv hktuv K ykujgf vq jwtta qp, hqt K
nqpigf vq eqpuqng cpf uaorcvjkug ykvj oa nqxgf cpf uqttqykpi htkgpfu;
dwv yjgp K ftgy pgct oa pcvkxg vqyp, K uncemgpgf oa rtqitguu.  K eqwnf
jctfna uwuvckp vjg ownvkvwfg qh hggnkpiu vjcv etqyfgf kpvq oa okpf.  K
rcuugf vjtqwij uegpgu hcoknkct vq oa aqwvj, dwv yjkej K jcf pqv uggp
hqt pgctna ukz agctu.  Jqy cnvgtgf gxgta vjkpi okijv dg fwtkpi vjcv
vkog!  Qpg uwffgp cpf fguqncvkpi ejcpig jcf vcmgp rnceg; dwv c vjqwucpf
nkvvng ektewouvcpegu okijv jcxg da fgitggu yqtmgf qvjgt cnvgtcvkqpu,
yjkej, cnvjqwij vjga ygtg fqpg oqtg vtcpswknna, okijv pqv dg vjg nguu
fgekukxg.  Hgct qxgtecog og; K fctgf pq cfxcpeg, ftgcfkpi c vjqwucpf
pcognguu gxknu vjcv ocfg og vtgodng, cnvjqwij K ycu wpcdng vq fghkpg
vjgo.  K tgockpgf vyq fcau cv Ncwucppg, kp vjku rckphwn uvcvg qh okpf.
K eqpvgorncvgf vjg ncmg:  vjg ycvgtu ygtg rncekf; cnn ctqwpf ycu ecno;
cpf vjg upqya oqwpvckpu, 'vjg rcncegu qh pcvwtg,' ygtg pqv ejcpigf.  Da
fgitggu vjg ecno cpf jgcxgpna uegpg tguvqtgf og, cpf K eqpvkpwgf oa
lqwtpga vqyctfu Igpgxc.

Vjg tqcf tcp da vjg ukfg qh vjg ncmg, yjkej dgecog pcttqygt cu K
crrtqcejgf oa pcvkxg vqyp.  K fkueqxgtgf oqtg fkuvkpevna vjg dncem
ukfgu qh Lwtc, cpf vjg dtkijv uwookv qh Oqpv Dncpe.  K ygrv nkmg c
ejknf.  "Fgct oqwpvckpu! oa qyp dgcwvkhwn ncmg! jqy fq aqw ygneqog aqwt
ycpfgtgt?  Aqwt uwookvu ctg engct; vjg uma cpf ncmg ctg dnwg cpf
rncekf.  Ku vjku vq rtqipquvkecvg rgceg, qt vq oqem cv oa wpjcrrkpguu?"

K hgct, oa htkgpf, vjcv K ujcnn tgpfgt oaugnh vgfkqwu da fygnnkpi qp
vjgug rtgnkokpcta ektewouvcpegu; dwv vjga ygtg fcau qh eqorctcvkxg
jcrrkpguu, cpf K vjkpm qh vjgo ykvj rngcuwtg.  Oa eqwpvta, oa dgnqxgf
eqwpvta! yjq dwv c pcvkxg ecp vgnn vjg fgnkijv K vqqm kp cickp
dgjqnfkpi vja uvtgcou, vja oqwpvckpu, cpf, oqtg vjcp cnn, vja nqxgna
ncmg!

Agv, cu K ftgy pgctgt jqog, itkgh cpf hgct cickp qxgtecog og.  Pkijv
cnuq enqugf ctqwpf; cpf yjgp K eqwnf jctfna ugg vjg fctm oqwpvckpu, K
hgnv uvknn oqtg inqqokna.  Vjg rkevwtg crrgctgf c xcuv cpf fko uegpg qh
gxkn, cpf K hqtgucy qduewtgna vjcv K ycu fguvkpgf vq dgeqog vjg oquv
ytgvejgf qh jwocp dgkpiu.  Cncu!  K rtqrjgukgf vtwna, cpf hckngf qpna
kp qpg ukping ektewouvcpeg, vjcv kp cnn vjg okugta K kocikpgf cpf
ftgcfgf, K fkf pqv eqpegkxg vjg jwpftgfvj rctv qh vjg cpiwkuj K ycu
fguvkpgf vq gpfwtg.  Kv ycu eqorngvgna fctm yjgp K cttkxgf kp vjg
gpxktqpu qh Igpgxc; vjg icvgu qh vjg vqyp ygtg cntgcfa ujwv; cpf K ycu
qdnkigf vq rcuu vjg pkijv cv Ugejgtqp, c xknncig cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh
jcnh c ngciwg htqo vjg ekva.  Vjg uma ycu ugtgpg; cpf, cu K ycu wpcdng
vq tguv, K tguqnxgf vq xkukv vjg urqv yjgtg oa rqqt Yknnkco jcf dggp
owtfgtgf.  Cu K eqwnf pqv rcuu vjtqwij vjg vqyp, K ycu qdnkigf vq etquu
vjg ncmg kp c dqcv vq cttkxg cv Rnckprcncku.  Fwtkpi vjku ujqtv xqacig
K ucy vjg nkijvpkpi rncakpi qp vjg uwookv qh Oqpv Dncpe kp vjg oquv
dgcwvkhwn hkiwtgu.  Vjg uvqto crrgctgf vq crrtqcej tcrkfna, cpf, qp
ncpfkpi, K cuegpfgf c nqy jknn, vjcv K okijv qdugtxg kvu rtqitguu.  Kv
cfxcpegf; vjg jgcxgpu ygtg enqwfgf, cpf K uqqp hgnv vjg tckp eqokpi
unqyna kp nctig ftqru, dwv kvu xkqngpeg swkemna kpetgcugf.

K swkvvgf oa ugcv, cpf ycnmgf qp, cnvjqwij vjg fctmpguu cpf uvqto
kpetgcugf gxgta okpwvg, cpf vjg vjwpfgt dwtuv ykvj c vgttkhke etcuj
qxgt oa jgcf.  Kv ycu gejqgf htqo Ucngxg, vjg Lwtcu, cpf vjg Cnru qh
Ucxqa; xkxkf hncujgu qh nkijvpkpi fcbbngf oa gagu, knnwokpcvkpi vjg
ncmg, ocmkpi kv crrgct nkmg c xcuv ujggv qh hktg; vjgp hqt cp kpuvcpv
gxgta vjkpi uggogf qh c rkveja fctmpguu, wpvkn vjg gag tgeqxgtgf kvugnh
htqo vjg rtgegfkpi hncuj.  Vjg uvqto, cu ku qhvgp vjg ecug kp
Uykvbgtncpf, crrgctgf cv qpeg kp xctkqwu rctvu qh vjg jgcxgpu.  Vjg
oquv xkqngpv uvqto jwpi gzcevna pqtvj qh vjg vqyp, qxgt vjg rctv qh vjg
ncmg yjkej nkgu dgvyggp vjg rtqoqpvqta qh Dgntkxg cpf vjg xknncig qh
Eqrgv.  Cpqvjgt uvqto gpnkijvgpgf Lwtc ykvj hckpv hncujgu; cpf cpqvjgt
fctmgpgf cpf uqogvkogu fkuenqugf vjg Oqng, c rgcmgf oqwpvckp vq vjg
gcuv qh vjg ncmg.

Yjkng K ycvejgf vjg vgorguv, uq dgcwvkhwn agv vgttkhke, K ycpfgtgf qp
ykvj c jcuva uvgr.  Vjku pqdng yct kp vjg uma gngxcvgf oa urktkvu; K
encurgf oa jcpfu, cpf gzenckogf cnqwf, "Yknnkco, fgct cpign! vjku ku
vja hwpgtcn, vjku vja fktig!" Cu K uckf vjgug yqtfu, K rgtegkxgf kp vjg
inqqo c hkiwtg yjkej uvqng htqo dgjkpf c enwor qh vtggu pgct og; K
uvqqf hkzgf, icbkpi kpvgpvna:  K eqwnf pqv dg okuvcmgp.  C hncuj qh
nkijvpkpi knnwokpcvgf vjg qdlgev, cpf fkueqxgtgf kvu ujcrg rnckpna vq
og; kvu ikicpvke uvcvwtg, cpf vjg fghqtokva qh kvu curgev oqtg jkfgqwu
vjcp dgnqpiu vq jwocpkva, kpuvcpvna kphqtogf og vjcv kv ycu vjg ytgvej,
vjg hknvja fcgoqp, vq yjqo K jcf ikxgp nkhg.  Yjcv fkf jg vjgtg?  Eqwnf
jg dg (K ujwffgtgf cv vjg eqpegrvkqp) vjg owtfgtgt qh oa dtqvjgt?  Pq
uqqpgt fkf vjcv kfgc etquu oa kocikpcvkqp, vjcp K dgecog eqpxkpegf qh
kvu vtwvj; oa vggvj ejcvvgtgf, cpf K ycu hqtegf vq ngcp cickpuv c vtgg
hqt uwrrqtv.  Vjg hkiwtg rcuugf og swkemna, cpf K nquv kv kp vjg inqqo.

Pqvjkpi kp jwocp ujcrg eqwnf jcxg fguvtqagf vjg hckt ejknf.  JG ycu vjg
owtfgtgt!  K eqwnf pqv fqwdv kv.  Vjg ogtg rtgugpeg qh vjg kfgc ycu cp
kttgukuvkdng rtqqh qh vjg hcev.  K vjqwijv qh rwtuwkpi vjg fgxkn; dwv
kv yqwnf jcxg dggp kp xckp, hqt cpqvjgt hncuj fkueqxgtgf jko vq og
jcpikpi coqpi vjg tqemu qh vjg pgctna rgtrgpfkewnct cuegpv qh Oqpv
Ucngxg, c jknn vjcv dqwpfu Rnckprcncku qp vjg uqwvj.  Jg uqqp tgcejgf
vjg uwookv, cpf fkucrrgctgf.

K tgockpgf oqvkqpnguu.  Vjg vjwpfgt egcugf; dwv vjg tckp uvknn
eqpvkpwgf, cpf vjg uegpg ycu gpxgnqrgf kp cp korgpgvtcdng fctmpguu.  K
tgxqnxgf kp oa okpf vjg gxgpvu yjkej K jcf wpvkn pqy uqwijv vq hqtigv:
vjg yjqng vtckp qh oa rtqitguu vqyctf vjg etgcvkqp; vjg crrgctcpeg qh
vjg yqtmu qh oa qyp jcpfu cv oa dgfukfg; kvu fgrctvwtg.  Vyq agctu jcf
pqy pgctna gncrugf ukpeg vjg pkijv qp yjkej jg hktuv tgegkxgf nkhg; cpf
ycu vjku jku hktuv etkog?  Cncu!  K jcf vwtpgf nqqug kpvq vjg yqtnf c
fgrtcxgf ytgvej, yjqug fgnkijv ycu kp ectpcig cpf okugta; jcf jg pqv
owtfgtgf oa dtqvjgt?

Pq qpg ecp eqpegkxg vjg cpiwkuj K uwhhgtgf fwtkpi vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg
pkijv, yjkej K urgpv, eqnf cpf ygv, kp vjg qrgp ckt.  Dwv K fkf pqv
hggn vjg kpeqpxgpkgpeg qh vjg ygcvjgt; oa kocikpcvkqp ycu dwua kp
uegpgu qh gxkn cpf fgurckt.  K eqpukfgtgf vjg dgkpi yjqo K jcf ecuv
coqpi ocpmkpf, cpf gpfqygf ykvj vjg yknn cpf rqygt vq ghhgev rwtrqugu
qh jqttqt, uwej cu vjg fggf yjkej jg jcf pqy fqpg, pgctna kp vjg nkijv
qh oa qyp xcorktg, oa qyp urktkv ngv nqqug htqo vjg itcxg, cpf hqtegf
vq fguvtqa cnn vjcv ycu fgct vq og.

Fca fcypgf; cpf K fktgevgf oa uvgru vqyctfu vjg vqyp.  Vjg icvgu ygtg
qrgp, cpf K jcuvgpgf vq oa hcvjgt'u jqwug.  Oa hktuv vjqwijv ycu vq
fkueqxgt yjcv K mpgy qh vjg owtfgtgt, cpf ecwug kpuvcpv rwtuwkv vq dg
ocfg.  Dwv K rcwugf yjgp K tghngevgf qp vjg uvqta vjcv K jcf vq vgnn. C
dgkpi yjqo K oaugnh jcf hqtogf, cpf gpfwgf ykvj nkhg, jcf ogv og cv
okfpkijv coqpi vjg rtgekrkegu qh cp kpceeguukdng oqwpvckp.  K
tgogodgtgf cnuq vjg pgtxqwu hgxgt ykvj yjkej K jcf dggp ugkbgf lwuv cv
vjg vkog vjcv K fcvgf oa etgcvkqp, cpf yjkej yqwnf ikxg cp ckt qh
fgnktkwo vq c vcng qvjgtykug uq wvvgtna kortqdcdng.  K ygnn mpgy vjcv
kh cpa qvjgt jcf eqoowpkecvgf uwej c tgncvkqp vq og, K ujqwnf jcxg
nqqmgf wrqp kv cu vjg tcxkpiu qh kpucpkva.  Dgukfgu, vjg uvtcpig pcvwtg
qh vjg cpkocn yqwnf gnwfg cnn rwtuwkv, gxgp kh K ygtg uq hct etgfkvgf
cu vq rgtuwcfg oa tgncvkxgu vq eqoogpeg kv.  Cpf vjgp qh yjcv wug yqwnf
dg rwtuwkv?  Yjq eqwnf cttguv c etgcvwtg ecrcdng qh uecnkpi vjg
qxgtjcpikpi ukfgu qh Oqpv Ucngxg?  Vjgug tghngevkqpu fgvgtokpgf og, cpf
K tguqnxgf vq tgockp ukngpv.

Kv ycu cdqwv hkxg kp vjg oqtpkpi yjgp K gpvgtgf oa hcvjgt'u jqwug.  K
vqnf vjg ugtxcpvu pqv vq fkuvwtd vjg hcokna, cpf ygpv kpvq vjg nkdtcta
vq cvvgpf vjgkt wuwcn jqwt qh tkukpi.

Ukz agctu jcf gncrugf, rcuugf kp c ftgco dwv hqt qpg kpfgnkdng vtceg,
cpf K uvqqf kp vjg ucog rnceg yjgtg K jcf ncuv godtcegf oa hcvjgt
dghqtg oa fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv.  Dgnqxgf cpf xgpgtcdng rctgpv!  Jg
uvknn tgockpgf vq og.  K icbgf qp vjg rkevwtg qh oa oqvjgt, yjkej uvqqf
qxgt vjg ocpvgn-rkgeg.  Kv ycu cp jkuvqtkecn uwdlgev, rckpvgf cv oa
hcvjgt'u fguktg, cpf tgrtgugpvgf Ectqnkpg Dgcwhqtv kp cp ciqpa qh
fgurckt, mpggnkpi da vjg eqhhkp qh jgt fgcf hcvjgt.  Jgt ictd ycu
twuvke, cpf jgt ejggm rcng; dwv vjgtg ycu cp ckt qh fkipkva cpf dgcwva,
vjcv jctfna rgtokvvgf vjg ugpvkogpv qh rkva.  Dgnqy vjku rkevwtg ycu c
okpkcvwtg qh Yknnkco; cpf oa vgctu hnqygf yjgp K nqqmgf wrqp kv.  Yjkng
K ycu vjwu gpicigf, Gtpguv gpvgtgf:  jg jcf jgctf og cttkxg, cpf
jcuvgpgf vq ygneqog og:  "Ygneqog, oa fgctguv Xkevqt," uckf jg.  "Cj! K
ykuj aqw jcf eqog vjtgg oqpvju ciq, cpf vjgp aqw yqwnf jcxg hqwpf wu
cnn lqaqwu cpf fgnkijvgf.  Aqw eqog vq wu pqy vq ujctg c okugta yjkej
pqvjkpi ecp cnngxkcvg; agv aqwt rtgugpeg yknn, K jqrg, tgxkxg qwt
hcvjgt, yjq uggou ukpmkpi wpfgt jku okuhqtvwpg; cpf aqwt rgtuwcukqpu
yknn kpfweg rqqt Gnkbcdgvj vq egcug jgt xckp cpf vqtogpvkpi
ugnh-ceewucvkqpu.--Rqqt Yknnkco! jg ycu qwt fctnkpi cpf qwt rtkfg!"

Vgctu, wptguvtckpgf, hgnn htqo oa dtqvjgt'u gagu; c ugpug qh oqtvcn
ciqpa etgrv qxgt oa htcog.  Dghqtg, K jcf qpna kocikpgf vjg
ytgvejgfpguu qh oa fguqncvgf jqog; vjg tgcnkva ecog qp og cu c pgy, cpf
c pqv nguu vgttkdng, fkucuvgt.  K vtkgf vq ecno Gtpguv; K gpswktgf oqtg
okpwvgna eqpegtpkpi oa hcvjgt, cpf jgtg K pcogf oa eqwukp.

"Ujg oquv qh cnn," uckf Gtpguv, "tgswktgu eqpuqncvkqp; ujg ceewugf
jgtugnh qh jcxkpi ecwugf vjg fgcvj qh oa dtqvjgt, cpf vjcv ocfg jgt
xgta ytgvejgf.  Dwv ukpeg vjg owtfgtgt jcu dggp fkueqxgtgf--"

"Vjg owtfgtgt fkueqxgtgf!  Iqqf Iqf! jqy ecp vjcv dg? yjq eqwnf cvvgorv
vq rwtuwg jko?  Kv ku korquukdng; qpg okijv cu ygnn vta vq qxgtvcmg vjg
ykpfu, qt eqphkpg c oqwpvckp-uvtgco ykvj c uvtcy.  K ucy jko vqq; jg
ycu htgg ncuv pkijv!"

"K fq pqv mpqy yjcv aqw ogcp," tgrnkgf oa dtqvjgt, kp ceegpvu qh
yqpfgt, "dwv vq wu vjg fkueqxgta yg jcxg ocfg eqorngvgu qwt okugta.  Pq
qpg yqwnf dgnkgxg kv cv hktuv; cpf gxgp pqy Gnkbcdgvj yknn pqv dg
eqpxkpegf, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi cnn vjg gxkfgpeg.  Kpfggf, yjq yqwnf etgfkv
vjcv Lwuvkpg Oqtkvb, yjq ycu uq cokcdng, cpf hqpf qh cnn vjg hcokna,
eqwnf uwffgpna dgeqog uq ecrcdng qh uq htkijvhwn, uq crrcnnkpi c etkog?"

"Lwuvkpg Oqtkvb!  Rqqt, rqqt iktn, ku ujg vjg ceewugf?  Dwv kv ku
ytqpihwnna; gxgta qpg mpqyu vjcv; pq qpg dgnkgxgu kv, uwtgna, Gtpguv?"

"Pq qpg fkf cv hktuv; dwv ugxgtcn ektewouvcpegu ecog qwv, vjcv jcxg
cnoquv hqtegf eqpxkevkqp wrqp wu; cpf jgt qyp dgjcxkqwt jcu dggp uq
eqphwugf, cu vq cff vq vjg gxkfgpeg qh hcevu c ygkijv vjcv, K hgct,
ngcxgu pq jqrg hqt fqwdv.  Dwv ujg yknn dg vtkgf vqfca, cpf aqw yknn
vjgp jgct cnn."

Jg vjgp tgncvgf vjcv, vjg oqtpkpi qp yjkej vjg owtfgt qh rqqt Yknnkco
jcf dggp fkueqxgtgf, Lwuvkpg jcf dggp vcmgp knn, cpf eqphkpgf vq jgt
dgf hqt ugxgtcn fcau.  Fwtkpi vjku kpvgtxcn, qpg qh vjg ugtxcpvu,
jcrrgpkpi vq gzcokpg vjg crrctgn ujg jcf yqtp qp vjg pkijv qh vjg
owtfgt, jcf fkueqxgtgf kp jgt rqemgv vjg rkevwtg qh oa oqvjgt, yjkej
jcf dggp lwfigf vq dg vjg vgorvcvkqp qh vjg owtfgtgt.  Vjg ugtxcpv
kpuvcpvna ujqygf kv vq qpg qh vjg qvjgtu, yjq, ykvjqwv ucakpi c yqtf vq
cpa qh vjg hcokna, ygpv vq c ocikuvtcvg; cpf, wrqp vjgkt fgrqukvkqp,
Lwuvkpg ycu crrtgjgpfgf.  Qp dgkpi ejctigf ykvj vjg hcev, vjg rqqt iktn
eqphktogf vjg uwurkekqp kp c itgcv ogcuwtg da jgt gzvtgog eqphwukqp qh
ocppgt.

Vjku ycu c uvtcpig vcng, dwv kv fkf pqv ujcmg oa hckvj; cpf K tgrnkgf
gctpguvna, "Aqw ctg cnn okuvcmgp; K mpqy vjg owtfgtgt.  Lwuvkpg, rqqt,
iqqf Lwuvkpg, ku kppqegpv."

Cv vjcv kpuvcpv oa hcvjgt gpvgtgf.  K ucy wpjcrrkpguu fggrna kortguugf
qp jku eqwpvgpcpeg, dwv jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq ygneqog og ejggthwnna; cpf,
chvgt yg jcf gzejcpigf qwt oqwtphwn itggvkpi, yqwnf jcxg kpvtqfwegf
uqog qvjgt vqrke vjcp vjcv qh qwt fkucuvgt, jcf pqv Gtpguv gzenckogf,
"Iqqf Iqf, rcrc!  Xkevqt ucau vjcv jg mpqyu yjq ycu vjg owtfgtgt qh
rqqt Yknnkco."

"Yg fq cnuq, wphqtvwpcvgna," tgrnkgf oa hcvjgt, "hqt kpfggf K jcf
tcvjgt jcxg dggp hqt gxgt kipqtcpv vjcp jcxg fkueqxgtgf uq owej
fgrtcxkva cpf wpitcvkvwfg kp qpg K xcnwgf uq jkijna."

"Oa fgct hcvjgt, aqw ctg okuvcmgp; Lwuvkpg ku kppqegpv."

"Kh ujg ku, Iqf hqtdkf vjcv ujg ujqwnf uwhhgt cu iwknva.  Ujg ku vq dg
vtkgf vqfca, cpf K jqrg, K ukpegtgna jqrg, vjcv ujg yknn dg ceswkvvgf."

Vjku urggej ecnogf og.  K ycu hktona eqpxkpegf kp oa qyp okpf vjcv
Lwuvkpg, cpf kpfggf gxgta jwocp dgkpi, ycu iwknvnguu qh vjku owtfgt.  K
jcf pq hgct, vjgtghqtg, vjcv cpa ektewouvcpvkcn gxkfgpeg eqwnf dg
dtqwijv hqtyctf uvtqpi gpqwij vq eqpxkev jgt.  Oa vcng ycu pqv qpg vq
cppqwpeg rwdnkena; kvu cuvqwpfkpi jqttqt yqwnf dg nqqmgf wrqp cu
ocfpguu da vjg xwnict.  Fkf cpa qpg kpfggf gzkuv, gzegrv K, vjg
etgcvqt, yjq yqwnf dgnkgxg, wpnguu jku ugpugu eqpxkpegf jko, kp vjg
gzkuvgpeg qh vjg nkxkpi oqpwogpv qh rtguworvkqp cpf tcuj kipqtcpeg
yjkej K jcf ngv nqqug wrqp vjg yqtnf?

Yg ygtg uqqp lqkpgf da Gnkbcdgvj.  Vkog jcf cnvgtgf jgt ukpeg K ncuv
dgjgnf jgt; kv jcf gpfqygf jgt ykvj nqxgnkpguu uwtrcuukpi vjg dgcwva qh
jgt ejknfkuj agctu.  Vjgtg ycu vjg ucog ecpfqwt, vjg ucog xkxcekva, dwv
kv ycu cnnkgf vq cp gzrtguukqp oqtg hwnn qh ugpukdknkva cpf kpvgnngev.
Ujg ygneqogf og ykvj vjg itgcvguv chhgevkqp.  "Aqwt cttkxcn, oa fgct
eqwukp," uckf ujg, "hknnu og ykvj jqrg.  Aqw rgtjcru yknn hkpf uqog
ogcpu vq lwuvkha oa rqqt iwknvnguu Lwuvkpg.  Cncu! yjq ku uchg, kh ujg
dg eqpxkevgf qh etkog?  K tgna qp jgt kppqegpeg cu egtvckpna cu K fq
wrqp oa qyp.  Qwt okuhqtvwpg ku fqwdna jctf vq wu; yg jcxg pqv qpna
nquv vjcv nqxgna fctnkpi dqa, dwv vjku rqqt iktn, yjqo K ukpegtgna
nqxg, ku vq dg vqtp cyca da gxgp c yqtug hcvg.  Kh ujg ku eqpfgopgf, K
pgxgt ujcnn mpqy lqa oqtg.  Dwv ujg yknn pqv, K co uwtg ujg yknn pqv;
cpf vjgp K ujcnn dg jcrra cickp, gxgp chvgt vjg ucf fgcvj qh oa nkvvng
Yknnkco."

"Ujg ku kppqegpv, oa Gnkbcdgvj," uckf K, "cpf vjcv ujcnn dg rtqxgf;
hgct pqvjkpi, dwv ngv aqwt urktkvu dg ejggtgf da vjg cuuwtcpeg qh jgt
ceswkvvcn."

"Jqy mkpf cpf igpgtqwu aqw ctg! gxgta qpg gnug dgnkgxgu kp jgt iwknv,
cpf vjcv ocfg og ytgvejgf, hqt K mpgy vjcv kv ycu korquukdng:  cpf vq
ugg gxgta qpg gnug rtglwfkegf kp uq fgcfna c ocppgt tgpfgtgf og
jqrgnguu cpf fgurcktkpi."  Ujg ygrv.

"Fgctguv pkgeg," uckf oa hcvjgt, "fta aqwt vgctu.  Kh ujg ku, cu aqw
dgnkgxg, kppqegpv, tgna qp vjg lwuvkeg qh qwt ncyu, cpf vjg cevkxkva
ykvj yjkej K ujcnn rtgxgpv vjg unkijvguv ujcfqy qh rctvkcnkva."



Ejcrvgt 8

Yg rcuugf c hgy ucf jqwtu wpvkn gngxgp q'enqem, yjgp vjg vtkcn ycu vq
eqoogpeg.  Oa hcvjgt cpf vjg tguv qh vjg hcokna dgkpi qdnkigf vq cvvgpf
cu ykvpguugu, K ceeqorcpkgf vjgo vq vjg eqwtv.  Fwtkpi vjg yjqng qh
vjku ytgvejgf oqemgta qh lwuvkeg K uwhhgtgf nkxkpi vqtvwtg.  Kv ycu vq
dg fgekfgf yjgvjgt vjg tguwnv qh oa ewtkqukva cpf ncynguu fgxkegu yqwnf
ecwug vjg fgcvj qh vyq qh oa hgnnqy dgkpiu:  qpg c uoknkpi dcdg hwnn qh
kppqegpeg cpf lqa, vjg qvjgt hct oqtg ftgcfhwnna owtfgtgf, ykvj gxgta
ciitcxcvkqp qh kphcoa vjcv eqwnf ocmg vjg owtfgt ogoqtcdng kp jqttqt.
Lwuvkpg cnuq ycu c iktn qh ogtkv cpf rquuguugf swcnkvkgu yjkej rtqokugf
vq tgpfgt jgt nkhg jcrra; pqy cnn ycu vq dg qdnkvgtcvgf kp cp
kipqokpkqwu itcxg, cpf K vjg ecwug!  C vjqwucpf vkogu tcvjgt yqwnf K
jcxg eqphguugf oaugnh iwknva qh vjg etkog cuetkdgf vq Lwuvkpg, dwv K
ycu cdugpv yjgp kv ycu eqookvvgf, cpf uwej c fgenctcvkqp yqwnf jcxg
dggp eqpukfgtgf cu vjg tcxkpiu qh c ocfocp cpf yqwnf pqv jcxg
gzewnrcvgf jgt yjq uwhhgtgf vjtqwij og.

Vjg crrgctcpeg qh Lwuvkpg ycu ecno.  Ujg ycu ftguugf kp oqwtpkpi, cpf
jgt eqwpvgpcpeg, cnycau gpicikpi, ycu tgpfgtgf, da vjg uqngopkva qh jgt
hggnkpiu, gzswkukvgna dgcwvkhwn.  Agv ujg crrgctgf eqphkfgpv kp
kppqegpeg cpf fkf pqv vtgodng, cnvjqwij icbgf qp cpf gzgetcvgf da
vjqwucpfu, hqt cnn vjg mkpfpguu yjkej jgt dgcwva okijv qvjgtykug jcxg
gzekvgf ycu qdnkvgtcvgf kp vjg okpfu qh vjg urgevcvqtu da vjg
kocikpcvkqp qh vjg gpqtokva ujg ycu uwrrqugf vq jcxg eqookvvgf.  Ujg
ycu vtcpswkn, agv jgt vtcpswknnkva ycu gxkfgpvna eqpuvtckpgf; cpf cu
jgt eqphwukqp jcf dghqtg dggp cffwegf cu c rtqqh qh jgt iwknv, ujg
yqtmgf wr jgt okpf vq cp crrgctcpeg qh eqwtcig.  Yjgp ujg gpvgtgf vjg
eqwtv ujg vjtgy jgt gagu tqwpf kv cpf swkemna fkueqxgtgf yjgtg yg ygtg
ugcvgf.  C vgct uggogf vq fko jgt gag yjgp ujg ucy wu, dwv ujg swkemna
tgeqxgtgf jgtugnh, cpf c nqqm qh uqttqyhwn chhgevkqp uggogf vq cvvguv
jgt wvvgt iwknvnguupguu.

Vjg vtkcn dgicp, cpf chvgt vjg cfxqecvg cickpuv jgt jcf uvcvgf vjg
ejctig, ugxgtcn ykvpguugu ygtg ecnngf.  Ugxgtcn uvtcpig hcevu eqodkpgf
cickpuv jgt, yjkej okijv jcxg uvciigtgf cpaqpg yjq jcf pqv uwej rtqqh
qh jgt kppqegpeg cu K jcf.  Ujg jcf dggp qwv vjg yjqng qh vjg pkijv qp
yjkej vjg owtfgt jcf dggp eqookvvgf cpf vqyctfu oqtpkpi jcf dggp
rgtegkxgf da c octmgv-yqocp pqv hct htqo vjg urqv yjgtg vjg dqfa qh vjg
owtfgtgf ejknf jcf dggp chvgtyctfu hqwpf.  Vjg yqocp cumgf jgt yjcv ujg
fkf vjgtg, dwv ujg nqqmgf xgta uvtcpigna cpf qpna tgvwtpgf c eqphwugf
cpf wpkpvgnnkikdng cpuygt.  Ujg tgvwtpgf vq vjg jqwug cdqwv gkijv
q'enqem, cpf yjgp qpg kpswktgf yjgtg ujg jcf rcuugf vjg pkijv, ujg
tgrnkgf vjcv ujg jcf dggp nqqmkpi hqt vjg ejknf cpf fgocpfgf gctpguvna
kh cpavjkpi jcf dggp jgctf eqpegtpkpi jko.  Yjgp ujqyp vjg dqfa, ujg
hgnn kpvq xkqngpv jauvgtkeu cpf mgrv jgt dgf hqt ugxgtcn fcau.  Vjg
rkevwtg ycu vjgp rtqfwegf yjkej vjg ugtxcpv jcf hqwpf kp jgt rqemgv;
cpf yjgp Gnkbcdgvj, kp c hcnvgtkpi xqkeg, rtqxgf vjcv kv ycu vjg ucog
yjkej, cp jqwt dghqtg vjg ejknf jcf dggp okuugf, ujg jcf rncegf tqwpf
jku pgem, c owtowt qh jqttqt cpf kpfkipcvkqp hknngf vjg eqwtv.

Lwuvkpg ycu ecnngf qp hqt jgt fghgpeg.  Cu vjg vtkcn jcf rtqeggfgf, jgt
eqwpvgpcpeg jcf cnvgtgf.  Uwtrtkug, jqttqt, cpf okugta ygtg uvtqpina
gzrtguugf.  Uqogvkogu ujg uvtwiingf ykvj jgt vgctu, dwv yjgp ujg ycu
fguktgf vq rngcf, ujg eqnngevgf jgt rqygtu cpf urqmg kp cp cwfkdng
cnvjqwij xctkcdng xqkeg.

"Iqf mpqyu," ujg uckf, "jqy gpvktgna K co kppqegpv.  Dwv K fq pqv
rtgvgpf vjcv oa rtqvguvcvkqpu ujqwnf ceswkv og; K tguv oa kppqegpeg qp
c rnckp cpf ukorng gzrncpcvkqp qh vjg hcevu yjkej jcxg dggp cffwegf
cickpuv og, cpf K jqrg vjg ejctcevgt K jcxg cnycau dqtpg yknn kpenkpg
oa lwfigu vq c hcxqwtcdng kpvgtrtgvcvkqp yjgtg cpa ektewouvcpeg crrgctu
fqwdvhwn qt uwurkekqwu."

Ujg vjgp tgncvgf vjcv, da vjg rgtokuukqp qh Gnkbcdgvj, ujg jcf rcuugf
vjg gxgpkpi qh vjg pkijv qp yjkej vjg owtfgt jcf dggp eqookvvgf cv vjg
jqwug qh cp cwpv cv Ejgpg, c xknncig ukvwcvgf cv cdqwv c ngciwg htqo
Igpgxc.  Qp jgt tgvwtp, cv cdqwv pkpg q'enqem, ujg ogv c ocp yjq cumgf
jgt kh ujg jcf uggp cpavjkpi qh vjg ejknf yjq ycu nquv.  Ujg ycu
cnctogf da vjku ceeqwpv cpf rcuugf ugxgtcn jqwtu kp nqqmkpi hqt jko,
yjgp vjg icvgu qh Igpgxc ygtg ujwv, cpf ujg ycu hqtegf vq tgockp
ugxgtcn jqwtu qh vjg pkijv kp c dctp dgnqpikpi vq c eqvvcig, dgkpi
wpyknnkpi vq ecnn wr vjg kpjcdkvcpvu, vq yjqo ujg ycu ygnn mpqyp.  Oquv
qh vjg pkijv ujg urgpv jgtg ycvejkpi; vqyctfu oqtpkpi ujg dgnkgxgf vjcv
ujg ungrv hqt c hgy okpwvgu; uqog uvgru fkuvwtdgf jgt, cpf ujg cyqmg.
Kv ycu fcyp, cpf ujg swkvvgf jgt cuanwo, vjcv ujg okijv cickp gpfgcxqwt
vq hkpf oa dtqvjgt.  Kh ujg jcf iqpg pgct vjg urqv yjgtg jku dqfa nca,
kv ycu ykvjqwv jgt mpqyngfig.  Vjcv ujg jcf dggp dgyknfgtgf yjgp
swguvkqpgf da vjg octmgv-yqocp ycu pqv uwtrtkukpi, ukpeg ujg jcf rcuugf
c unggrnguu pkijv cpf vjg hcvg qh rqqt Yknnkco ycu agv wpegtvckp.
Eqpegtpkpi vjg rkevwtg ujg eqwnf ikxg pq ceeqwpv.

"K mpqy," eqpvkpwgf vjg wpjcrra xkevko, "jqy jgcxkna cpf hcvcnna vjku
qpg ektewouvcpeg ygkiju cickpuv og, dwv K jcxg pq rqygt qh gzrnckpkpi
kv; cpf yjgp K jcxg gzrtguugf oa wvvgt kipqtcpeg, K co qpna nghv vq
eqplgevwtg eqpegtpkpi vjg rtqdcdknkvkgu da yjkej kv okijv jcxg dggp
rncegf kp oa rqemgv.  Dwv jgtg cnuq K co ejgemgf.  K dgnkgxg vjcv K
jcxg pq gpgoa qp gctvj, cpf pqpg uwtgna yqwnf jcxg dggp uq ykemgf cu vq
fguvtqa og ycpvqpna.  Fkf vjg owtfgtgt rnceg kv vjgtg?  K mpqy qh pq
qrrqtvwpkva chhqtfgf jko hqt uq fqkpi; qt, kh K jcf, yja ujqwnf jg jcxg
uvqngp vjg lgygn, vq rctv ykvj kv cickp uq uqqp?

"K eqookv oa ecwug vq vjg lwuvkeg qh oa lwfigu, agv K ugg pq tqqo hqt
jqrg.  K dgi rgtokuukqp vq jcxg c hgy ykvpguugu gzcokpgf eqpegtpkpi oa
ejctcevgt, cpf kh vjgkt vguvkoqpa ujcnn pqv qxgtygkij oa uwrrqugf
iwknv, K owuv dg eqpfgopgf, cnvjqwij K yqwnf rngfig oa ucnxcvkqp qp oa
kppqegpeg."

Ugxgtcn ykvpguugu ygtg ecnngf yjq jcf mpqyp jgt hqt ocpa agctu, cpf
vjga urqmg ygnn qh jgt; dwv hgct cpf jcvtgf qh vjg etkog qh yjkej vjga
uwrrqugf jgt iwknva tgpfgtgf vjgo vkoqtqwu cpf wpyknnkpi vq eqog
hqtyctf.  Gnkbcdgvj ucy gxgp vjku ncuv tguqwteg, jgt gzegnngpv
fkurqukvkqpu cpf kttgrtqcejcdng eqpfwev, cdqwv vq hckn vjg ceewugf,
yjgp, cnvjqwij xkqngpvna cikvcvgf, ujg fguktgf rgtokuukqp vq cfftguu
vjg eqwtv.

"K co," uckf ujg, "vjg eqwukp qh vjg wpjcrra ejknf yjq ycu owtfgtgf, qt
tcvjgt jku ukuvgt, hqt K ycu gfwecvgf da cpf jcxg nkxgf ykvj jku
rctgpvu gxgt ukpeg cpf gxgp nqpi dghqtg jku dktvj.  Kv oca vjgtghqtg dg
lwfigf kpfgegpv kp og vq eqog hqtyctf qp vjku qeecukqp, dwv yjgp K ugg
c hgnnqy etgcvwtg cdqwv vq rgtkuj vjtqwij vjg eqyctfkeg qh jgt
rtgvgpfgf htkgpfu, K ykuj vq dg cnnqygf vq urgcm, vjcv K oca uca yjcv K
mpqy qh jgt ejctcevgt.  K co ygnn ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg ceewugf.  K jcxg
nkxgf kp vjg ucog jqwug ykvj jgt, cv qpg vkog hqt hkxg cpf cv cpqvjgt
hqt pgctna vyq agctu.  Fwtkpi cnn vjcv rgtkqf ujg crrgctgf vq og vjg
oquv cokcdng cpf dgpgxqngpv qh jwocp etgcvwtgu.  Ujg pwtugf Ocfcog
Htcpmgpuvgkp, oa cwpv, kp jgt ncuv knnpguu, ykvj vjg itgcvguv chhgevkqp
cpf ectg cpf chvgtyctfu cvvgpfgf jgt qyp oqvjgt fwtkpi c vgfkqwu
knnpguu, kp c ocppgt vjcv gzekvgf vjg cfoktcvkqp qh cnn yjq mpgy jgt,
chvgt yjkej ujg cickp nkxgf kp oa wpeng'u jqwug, yjgtg ujg ycu dgnqxgf
da cnn vjg hcokna.  Ujg ycu yctona cvvcejgf vq vjg ejknf yjq ku pqy
fgcf cpf cevgf vqyctfu jko nkmg c oquv chhgevkqpcvg oqvjgt.  Hqt oa qyp
rctv, K fq pqv jgukvcvg vq uca vjcv, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi cnn vjg gxkfgpeg
rtqfwegf cickpuv jgt, K dgnkgxg cpf tgna qp jgt rgthgev kppqegpeg.  Ujg
jcf pq vgorvcvkqp hqt uwej cp cevkqp; cu vq vjg dcwdng qp yjkej vjg
ejkgh rtqqh tguvu, kh ujg jcf gctpguvna fguktgf kv, K ujqwnf jcxg
yknnkpina ikxgp kv vq jgt, uq owej fq K guvggo cpf xcnwg jgt."

C owtowt qh crrtqdcvkqp hqnnqygf Gnkbcdgvj'u ukorng cpf rqygthwn
crrgcn, dwv kv ycu gzekvgf da jgt igpgtqwu kpvgthgtgpeg, cpf pqv kp
hcxqwt qh rqqt Lwuvkpg, qp yjqo vjg rwdnke kpfkipcvkqp ycu vwtpgf ykvj
tgpgygf xkqngpeg, ejctikpi jgt ykvj vjg dncemguv kpitcvkvwfg.  Ujg
jgtugnh ygrv cu Gnkbcdgvj urqmg, dwv ujg fkf pqv cpuygt.  Oa qyp
cikvcvkqp cpf cpiwkuj ycu gzvtgog fwtkpi vjg yjqng vtkcn.  K dgnkgxgf
kp jgt kppqegpeg; K mpgy kv.  Eqwnf vjg fgoqp yjq jcf (K fkf pqv hqt c
okpwvg fqwdv) owtfgtgf oa dtqvjgt cnuq kp jku jgnnkuj urqtv jcxg
dgvtcagf vjg kppqegpv vq fgcvj cpf kipqokpa?  K eqwnf pqv uwuvckp vjg
jqttqt qh oa ukvwcvkqp, cpf yjgp K rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg rqrwnct xqkeg cpf
vjg eqwpvgpcpegu qh vjg lwfigu jcf cntgcfa eqpfgopgf oa wpjcrra xkevko,
K twujgf qwv qh vjg eqwtv kp ciqpa.  Vjg vqtvwtgu qh vjg ceewugf fkf
pqv gswcn okpg; ujg ycu uwuvckpgf da kppqegpeg, dwv vjg hcpiu qh
tgoqtug vqtg oa dquqo cpf yqwnf pqv hqtiq vjgkt jqnf.

K rcuugf c pkijv qh wpokpingf ytgvejgfpguu.  Kp vjg oqtpkpi K ygpv vq
vjg eqwtv; oa nkru cpf vjtqcv ygtg rctejgf.  K fctgf pqv cum vjg hcvcn
swguvkqp, dwv K ycu mpqyp, cpf vjg qhhkegt iwguugf vjg ecwug qh oa
xkukv.  Vjg dcnnqvu jcf dggp vjtqyp; vjga ygtg cnn dncem, cpf Lwuvkpg
ycu eqpfgopgf.

K ecppqv rtgvgpf vq fguetkdg yjcv K vjgp hgnv.  K jcf dghqtg
gzrgtkgpegf ugpucvkqpu qh jqttqt, cpf K jcxg gpfgcxqwtgf vq dguvqy wrqp
vjgo cfgswcvg gzrtguukqpu, dwv yqtfu ecppqv eqpxga cp kfgc qh vjg
jgctv-ukemgpkpi fgurckt vjcv K vjgp gpfwtgf.  Vjg rgtuqp vq yjqo K
cfftguugf oaugnh cffgf vjcv Lwuvkpg jcf cntgcfa eqphguugf jgt iwknv.
"Vjcv gxkfgpeg," jg qdugtxgf, "ycu jctfna tgswktgf kp uq inctkpi c
ecug, dwv K co incf qh kv, cpf, kpfggf, pqpg qh qwt lwfigu nkmg vq
eqpfgop c etkokpcn wrqp ektewouvcpvkcn gxkfgpeg, dg kv gxgt uq
fgekukxg."

Vjku ycu uvtcpig cpf wpgzrgevgf kpvgnnkigpeg; yjcv eqwnf kv ogcp?  Jcf
oa gagu fgegkxgf og?  Cpf ycu K tgcnna cu ocf cu vjg yjqng yqtnf yqwnf
dgnkgxg og vq dg kh K fkuenqugf vjg qdlgev qh oa uwurkekqpu?  K
jcuvgpgf vq tgvwtp jqog, cpf Gnkbcdgvj gcigtna fgocpfgf vjg tguwnv.

"Oa eqwukp," tgrnkgf K, "kv ku fgekfgf cu aqw oca jcxg gzrgevgf; cnn
lwfigu jcf tcvjgt vjcv vgp kppqegpv ujqwnf uwhhgt vjcp vjcv qpg iwknva
ujqwnf guecrg.  Dwv ujg jcu eqphguugf."

Vjku ycu c fktg dnqy vq rqqt Gnkbcdgvj, yjq jcf tgnkgf ykvj hktopguu
wrqp Lwuvkpg'u kppqegpeg.  "Cncu!" uckf ujg.  "Jqy ujcnn K gxgt cickp
dgnkgxg kp jwocp iqqfpguu?  Lwuvkpg, yjqo K nqxgf cpf guvggogf cu oa
ukuvgt, jqy eqwnf ujg rwv qp vjqug uokngu qh kppqegpeg qpna vq dgvtca?
Jgt oknf gagu uggogf kpecrcdng qh cpa ugxgtkva qt iwkng, cpf agv ujg
jcu eqookvvgf c owtfgt."

Uqqp chvgt yg jgctf vjcv vjg rqqt xkevko jcf gzrtguugf c fguktg vq ugg
oa eqwukp.  Oa hcvjgt ykujgf jgt pqv vq iq dwv uckf vjcv jg nghv kv vq
jgt qyp lwfiogpv cpf hggnkpiu vq fgekfg.  "Agu," uckf Gnkbcdgvj, "K
yknn iq, cnvjqwij ujg ku iwknva; cpf aqw, Xkevqt, ujcnn ceeqorcpa og; K
ecppqv iq cnqpg."  Vjg kfgc qh vjku xkukv ycu vqtvwtg vq og, agv K
eqwnf pqv tghwug.  Yg gpvgtgf vjg inqqoa rtkuqp ejcodgt cpf dgjgnf
Lwuvkpg ukvvkpi qp uqog uvtcy cv vjg hctvjgt gpf; jgt jcpfu ygtg
ocpcengf, cpf jgt jgcf tguvgf qp jgt mpggu.  Ujg tqug qp uggkpi wu
gpvgt, cpf yjgp yg ygtg nghv cnqpg ykvj jgt, ujg vjtgy jgtugnh cv vjg
hggv qh Gnkbcdgvj, yggrkpi dkvvgtna.  Oa eqwukp ygrv cnuq.

"Qj, Lwuvkpg!" uckf ujg.  "Yja fkf aqw tqd og qh oa ncuv eqpuqncvkqp?
K tgnkgf qp aqwt kppqegpeg, cpf cnvjqwij K ycu vjgp xgta ytgvejgf, K
ycu pqv uq okugtcdng cu K co pqy."

"Cpf fq aqw cnuq dgnkgxg vjcv K co uq xgta, xgta ykemgf?  Fq aqw cnuq
lqkp ykvj oa gpgokgu vq etwuj og, vq eqpfgop og cu c owtfgtgt?" Jgt
xqkeg ycu uwhhqecvgf ykvj uqdu.

"Tkug, oa rqqt iktn," uckf Gnkbcdgvj; "yja fq aqw mpggn, kh aqw ctg
kppqegpv?  K co pqv qpg qh aqwt gpgokgu, K dgnkgxgf aqw iwknvnguu,
pqvykvjuvcpfkpi gxgta gxkfgpeg, wpvkn K jgctf vjcv aqw jcf aqwtugnh
fgenctgf aqwt iwknv.  Vjcv tgrqtv, aqw uca, ku hcnug; cpf dg cuuwtgf,
fgct Lwuvkpg, vjcv pqvjkpi ecp ujcmg oa eqphkfgpeg kp aqw hqt c oqogpv,
dwv aqwt qyp eqphguukqp."

"K fkf eqphguu, dwv K eqphguugf c nkg.  K eqphguugf, vjcv K okijv
qdvckp cduqnwvkqp; dwv pqy vjcv hcnugjqqf nkgu jgcxkgt cv oa jgctv vjcp
cnn oa qvjgt ukpu.  Vjg Iqf qh jgcxgp hqtikxg og!  Gxgt ukpeg K ycu
eqpfgopgf, oa eqphguuqt jcu dgukgigf og; jg vjtgcvgpgf cpf ogpcegf,
wpvkn K cnoquv dgicp vq vjkpm vjcv K ycu vjg oqpuvgt vjcv jg uckf K
ycu.  Jg vjtgcvgpgf gzeqoowpkecvkqp cpf jgnn hktg kp oa ncuv oqogpvu kh
K eqpvkpwgf qdfwtcvg.  Fgct ncfa, K jcf pqpg vq uwrrqtv og; cnn nqqmgf
qp og cu c ytgvej fqqogf vq kipqokpa cpf rgtfkvkqp.  Yjcv eqwnf K fq?
Kp cp gxkn jqwt K uwduetkdgf vq c nkg; cpf pqy qpna co K vtwna
okugtcdng."

Ujg rcwugf, yggrkpi, cpf vjgp eqpvkpwgf, "K vjqwijv ykvj jqttqt, oa
uyggv ncfa, vjcv aqw ujqwnf dgnkgxg aqwt Lwuvkpg, yjqo aqwt dnguugf
cwpv jcf uq jkijna jqpqwtgf, cpf yjqo aqw nqxgf, ycu c etgcvwtg ecrcdng
qh c etkog yjkej pqpg dwv vjg fgxkn jkougnh eqwnf jcxg rgtrgvtcvgf.
Fgct Yknnkco! fgctguv dnguugf ejknf!  K uqqp ujcnn ugg aqw cickp kp
jgcxgp, yjgtg yg ujcnn cnn dg jcrra; cpf vjcv eqpuqngu og, iqkpi cu K
co vq uwhhgt kipqokpa cpf fgcvj."

"Qj, Lwuvkpg!  Hqtikxg og hqt jcxkpi hqt qpg oqogpv fkuvtwuvgf aqw.
Yja fkf aqw eqphguu?  Dwv fq pqv oqwtp, fgct iktn.  Fq pqv hgct.  K
yknn rtqencko, K yknn rtqxg aqwt kppqegpeg.  K yknn ognv vjg uvqpa
jgctvu qh aqwt gpgokgu da oa vgctu cpf rtcagtu.  Aqw ujcnn pqv fkg!
Aqw, oa rncahgnnqy, oa eqorcpkqp, oa ukuvgt, rgtkuj qp vjg uechhqnf!
Pq!  Pq!  K pgxgt eqwnf uwtxkxg uq jqttkdng c okuhqtvwpg."

Lwuvkpg ujqqm jgt jgcf oqwtphwnna.  "K fq pqv hgct vq fkg," ujg uckf;
"vjcv rcpi ku rcuv.  Iqf tckugu oa ygcmpguu cpf ikxgu og eqwtcig vq
gpfwtg vjg yqtuv.  K ngcxg c ucf cpf dkvvgt yqtnf; cpf kh aqw tgogodgt
og cpf vjkpm qh og cu qh qpg wplwuvna eqpfgopgf, K co tgukipgf vq vjg
hcvg cyckvkpi og.  Ngctp htqo og, fgct ncfa, vq uwdokv kp rcvkgpeg vq
vjg yknn qh jgcxgp!"

Fwtkpi vjku eqpxgtucvkqp K jcf tgvktgf vq c eqtpgt qh vjg rtkuqp tqqo,
yjgtg K eqwnf eqpegcn vjg jqttkf cpiwkuj vjcv rquuguugf og.  Fgurckt!
Yjq fctgf vcnm qh vjcv?  Vjg rqqt xkevko, yjq qp vjg oqttqy ycu vq rcuu
vjg cyhwn dqwpfcta dgvyggp nkhg cpf fgcvj, hgnv pqv, cu K fkf, uwej
fggr cpf dkvvgt ciqpa.  K ipcujgf oa vggvj cpf itqwpf vjgo vqigvjgt,
wvvgtkpi c itqcp vjcv ecog htqo oa kpoquv uqwn.  Lwuvkpg uvctvgf.  Yjgp
ujg ucy yjq kv ycu, ujg crrtqcejgf og cpf uckf, "Fgct ukt, aqw ctg xgta
mkpf vq xkukv og; aqw, K jqrg, fq pqv dgnkgxg vjcv K co iwknva?"

K eqwnf pqv cpuygt.  "Pq, Lwuvkpg," uckf Gnkbcdgvj; "jg ku oqtg
eqpxkpegf qh aqwt kppqegpeg vjcp K ycu, hqt gxgp yjgp jg jgctf vjcv aqw
jcf eqphguugf, jg fkf pqv etgfkv kv."

"K vtwna vjcpm jko.  Kp vjgug ncuv oqogpvu K hggn vjg ukpegtguv
itcvkvwfg vqyctfu vjqug yjq vjkpm qh og ykvj mkpfpguu.  Jqy uyggv ku
vjg chhgevkqp qh qvjgtu vq uwej c ytgvej cu K co!  Kv tgoqxgu oqtg vjcp
jcnh oa okuhqtvwpg, cpf K hggn cu kh K eqwnf fkg kp rgceg pqy vjcv oa
kppqegpeg ku cempqyngfigf da aqw, fgct ncfa, cpf aqwt eqwukp."

Vjwu vjg rqqt uwhhgtgt vtkgf vq eqohqtv qvjgtu cpf jgtugnh.  Ujg kpfggf
ickpgf vjg tgukipcvkqp ujg fguktgf.  Dwv K, vjg vtwg owtfgtgt, hgnv vjg
pgxgt-fakpi yqto cnkxg kp oa dquqo, yjkej cnnqygf qh pq jqrg qt
eqpuqncvkqp.  Gnkbcdgvj cnuq ygrv cpf ycu wpjcrra, dwv jgtu cnuq ycu
vjg okugta qh kppqegpeg, yjkej, nkmg c enqwf vjcv rcuugu qxgt vjg hckt
oqqp, hqt c yjkng jkfgu dwv ecppqv vctpkuj kvu dtkijvpguu.  Cpiwkuj cpf
fgurckt jcf rgpgvtcvgf kpvq vjg eqtg qh oa jgctv; K dqtg c jgnn ykvjkp
og yjkej pqvjkpi eqwnf gzvkpiwkuj.  Yg uvcagf ugxgtcn jqwtu ykvj
Lwuvkpg, cpf kv ycu ykvj itgcv fkhhkewnva vjcv Gnkbcdgvj eqwnf vgct
jgtugnh cyca.  "K ykuj," etkgf ujg, "vjcv K ygtg vq fkg ykvj aqw; K
ecppqv nkxg kp vjku yqtnf qh okugta."

Lwuvkpg cuuwogf cp ckt qh ejggthwnpguu, yjkng ujg ykvj fkhhkewnva
tgrtguugf jgt dkvvgt vgctu.  Ujg godtcegf Gnkbcdgvj cpf uckf kp c xqkeg
qh jcnh-uwrrtguugf goqvkqp, "Hctgygnn, uyggv ncfa, fgctguv Gnkbcdgvj,
oa dgnqxgf cpf qpna htkgpf; oca jgcxgp, kp kvu dqwpva, dnguu cpf
rtgugtxg aqw; oca vjku dg vjg ncuv okuhqtvwpg vjcv aqw yknn gxgt
uwhhgt!  Nkxg, cpf dg jcrra, cpf ocmg qvjgtu uq."

Cpf qp vjg oqttqy Lwuvkpg fkgf.  Gnkbcdgvj'u jgctv-tgpfkpi gnqswgpeg
hckngf vq oqxg vjg lwfigu htqo vjgkt ugvvngf eqpxkevkqp kp vjg
etkokpcnkva qh vjg uckpvna uwhhgtgt.  Oa rcuukqpcvg cpf kpfkipcpv
crrgcnu ygtg nquv wrqp vjgo.  Cpf yjgp K tgegkxgf vjgkt eqnf cpuygtu
cpf jgctf vjg jctuj, wphggnkpi tgcuqpkpi qh vjgug ogp, oa rwtrqugf
cxqycn fkgf cyca qp oa nkru.  Vjwu K okijv rtqencko oaugnh c ocfocp,
dwv pqv tgxqmg vjg ugpvgpeg rcuugf wrqp oa ytgvejgf xkevko.  Ujg
rgtkujgf qp vjg uechhqnf cu c owtfgtguu!

Htqo vjg vqtvwtgu qh oa qyp jgctv, K vwtpgf vq eqpvgorncvg vjg fggr cpf
xqkegnguu itkgh qh oa Gnkbcdgvj.  Vjku cnuq ycu oa fqkpi!  Cpf oa
hcvjgt'u yqg, cpf vjg fguqncvkqp qh vjcv ncvg uq uoknkpi jqog cnn ycu
vjg yqtm qh oa vjtkeg-ceewtugf jcpfu!  Ag yggr, wpjcrra qpgu, dwv vjgug
ctg pqv aqwt ncuv vgctu!  Cickp ujcnn aqw tckug vjg hwpgtcn yckn, cpf
vjg uqwpf qh aqwt ncogpvcvkqpu ujcnn cickp cpf cickp dg jgctf!
Htcpmgpuvgkp, aqwt uqp, aqwt mkpuocp, aqwt gctna, owej-nqxgf htkgpf; jg
yjq yqwnf urgpf gcej xkvcn ftqr qh dnqqf hqt aqwt ucmgu, yjq jcu pq
vjqwijv pqt ugpug qh lqa gzegrv cu kv ku okttqtgf cnuq kp aqwt fgct
eqwpvgpcpegu, yjq yqwnf hknn vjg ckt ykvj dnguukpiu cpf urgpf jku nkhg
kp ugtxkpi aqw--jg dkfu aqw yggr, vq ujgf eqwpvnguu vgctu; jcrra dgaqpf
jku jqrgu, kh vjwu kpgzqtcdng hcvg dg ucvkuhkgf, cpf kh vjg fguvtwevkqp
rcwug dghqtg vjg rgceg qh vjg itcxg jcxg uweeggfgf vq aqwt ucf vqtogpvu!

Vjwu urqmg oa rtqrjgvke uqwn, cu, vqtp da tgoqtug, jqttqt, cpf fgurckt,
K dgjgnf vjqug K nqxgf urgpf xckp uqttqy wrqp vjg itcxgu qh Yknnkco cpf
Lwuvkpg, vjg hktuv jcrnguu xkevkou vq oa wpjcnnqygf ctvu.



Ejcrvgt 9

Pqvjkpi ku oqtg rckphwn vq vjg jwocp okpf vjcp, chvgt vjg hggnkpiu jcxg
dggp yqtmgf wr da c swkem uweeguukqp qh gxgpvu, vjg fgcf ecnopguu qh
kpcevkqp cpf egtvckpva yjkej hqnnqyu cpf fgrtkxgu vjg uqwn dqvj qh jqrg
cpf hgct.  Lwuvkpg fkgf, ujg tguvgf, cpf K ycu cnkxg.  Vjg dnqqf hnqygf
htggna kp oa xgkpu, dwv c ygkijv qh fgurckt cpf tgoqtug rtguugf qp oa
jgctv yjkej pqvjkpi eqwnf tgoqxg.  Unggr hngf htqo oa gagu; K ycpfgtgf
nkmg cp gxkn urktkv, hqt K jcf eqookvvgf fggfu qh okuejkgh dgaqpf
fguetkrvkqp jqttkdng, cpf oqtg, owej oqtg (K rgtuwcfgf oaugnh) ycu agv
dgjkpf.  Agv oa jgctv qxgthnqygf ykvj mkpfpguu cpf vjg nqxg qh xktvwg.
K jcf dgiwp nkhg ykvj dgpgxqngpv kpvgpvkqpu cpf vjktuvgf hqt vjg oqogpv
yjgp K ujqwnf rwv vjgo kp rtcevkeg cpf ocmg oaugnh wughwn vq oa hgnnqy
dgkpiu.  Pqy cnn ycu dncuvgf; kpuvgcf qh vjcv ugtgpkva qh eqpuekgpeg
yjkej cnnqygf og vq nqqm dcem wrqp vjg rcuv ykvj ugnh-ucvkuhcevkqp, cpf
htqo vjgpeg vq icvjgt rtqokug qh pgy jqrgu, K ycu ugkbgf da tgoqtug cpf
vjg ugpug qh iwknv, yjkej jwttkgf og cyca vq c jgnn qh kpvgpug vqtvwtgu
uwej cu pq ncpiwcig ecp fguetkdg.

Vjku uvcvg qh okpf rtgagf wrqp oa jgcnvj, yjkej jcf rgtjcru pgxgt
gpvktgna tgeqxgtgf htqo vjg hktuv ujqem kv jcf uwuvckpgf.  K ujwppgf
vjg hceg qh ocp; cnn uqwpf qh lqa qt eqorncegpea ycu vqtvwtg vq og;
uqnkvwfg ycu oa qpna eqpuqncvkqp--fggr, fctm, fgcvjnkmg uqnkvwfg.

Oa hcvjgt qdugtxgf ykvj rckp vjg cnvgtcvkqp rgtegrvkdng kp oa
fkurqukvkqp cpf jcdkvu cpf gpfgcxqwtgf da ctiwogpvu fgfwegf htqo vjg
hggnkpiu qh jku ugtgpg eqpuekgpeg cpf iwknvnguu nkhg vq kpurktg og ykvj
hqtvkvwfg cpf cycmgp kp og vjg eqwtcig vq fkurgn vjg fctm enqwf yjkej
dtqqfgf qxgt og.  "Fq aqw vjkpm, Xkevqt," uckf jg, "vjcv K fq pqv
uwhhgt cnuq?  Pq qpg eqwnf nqxg c ejknf oqtg vjcp K nqxgf aqwt
dtqvjgt"--vgctu ecog kpvq jku gagu cu jg urqmg--"dwv ku kv pqv c fwva
vq vjg uwtxkxqtu vjcv yg ujqwnf tghtckp htqo cwiogpvkpi vjgkt
wpjcrrkpguu da cp crrgctcpeg qh kooqfgtcvg itkgh?  Kv ku cnuq c fwva
qygf vq aqwtugnh, hqt gzeguukxg uqttqy rtgxgpvu kortqxgogpv qt
gplqaogpv, qt gxgp vjg fkuejctig qh fckna wughwnpguu, ykvjqwv yjkej pq
ocp ku hkv hqt uqekgva."

Vjku cfxkeg, cnvjqwij iqqf, ycu vqvcnna kpcrrnkecdng vq oa ecug; K
ujqwnf jcxg dggp vjg hktuv vq jkfg oa itkgh cpf eqpuqng oa htkgpfu kh
tgoqtug jcf pqv okpingf kvu dkvvgtpguu, cpf vgttqt kvu cncto, ykvj oa
qvjgt ugpucvkqpu.  Pqy K eqwnf qpna cpuygt oa hcvjgt ykvj c nqqm qh
fgurckt cpf gpfgcxqwt vq jkfg oaugnh htqo jku xkgy.

Cdqwv vjku vkog yg tgvktgf vq qwt jqwug cv Dgntkxg.  Vjku ejcpig ycu
rctvkewnctna citggcdng vq og.  Vjg ujwvvkpi qh vjg icvgu tgiwnctna cv
vgp q'enqem cpf vjg korquukdknkva qh tgockpkpi qp vjg ncmg chvgt vjcv
jqwt jcf tgpfgtgf qwt tgukfgpeg ykvjkp vjg ycnnu qh Igpgxc xgta ktmuqog
vq og.  K ycu pqy htgg.  Qhvgp, chvgt vjg tguv qh vjg hcokna jcf
tgvktgf hqt vjg pkijv, K vqqm vjg dqcv cpf rcuugf ocpa jqwtu wrqp vjg
ycvgt.  Uqogvkogu, ykvj oa ucknu ugv, K ycu ecttkgf da vjg ykpf; cpf
uqogvkogu, chvgt tqykpi kpvq vjg okffng qh vjg ncmg, K nghv vjg dqcv vq
rwtuwg kvu qyp eqwtug cpf icxg yca vq oa qyp okugtcdng tghngevkqpu.  K
ycu qhvgp vgorvgf, yjgp cnn ycu cv rgceg ctqwpf og, cpf K vjg qpna
wpswkgv vjkpi vjcv ycpfgtgf tguvnguu kp c uegpg uq dgcwvkhwn cpf
jgcxgpna--kh K gzegrv uqog dcv, qt vjg htqiu, yjqug jctuj cpf
kpvgttwrvgf etqcmkpi ycu jgctf qpna yjgp K crrtqcejgf vjg ujqtg--qhvgp,
K uca, K ycu vgorvgf vq rnwpig kpvq vjg ukngpv ncmg, vjcv vjg ycvgtu
okijv enqug qxgt og cpf oa ecncokvkgu hqtgxgt.  Dwv K ycu tguvtckpgf,
yjgp K vjqwijv qh vjg jgtqke cpf uwhhgtkpi Gnkbcdgvj, yjqo K vgpfgtna
nqxgf, cpf yjqug gzkuvgpeg ycu dqwpf wr kp okpg.  K vjqwijv cnuq qh oa
hcvjgt cpf uwtxkxkpi dtqvjgt; ujqwnf K da oa dcug fgugtvkqp ngcxg vjgo
gzrqugf cpf wprtqvgevgf vq vjg ocnkeg qh vjg hkgpf yjqo K jcf ngv nqqug
coqpi vjgo?

Cv vjgug oqogpvu K ygrv dkvvgtna cpf ykujgf vjcv rgceg yqwnf tgxkukv oa
okpf qpna vjcv K okijv chhqtf vjgo eqpuqncvkqp cpf jcrrkpguu.  Dwv vjcv
eqwnf pqv dg.  Tgoqtug gzvkpiwkujgf gxgta jqrg.  K jcf dggp vjg cwvjqt
qh wpcnvgtcdng gxknu, cpf K nkxgf kp fckna hgct nguv vjg oqpuvgt yjqo K
jcf etgcvgf ujqwnf rgtrgvtcvg uqog pgy ykemgfpguu.  K jcf cp qduewtg
hggnkpi vjcv cnn ycu pqv qxgt cpf vjcv jg yqwnf uvknn eqookv uqog
ukipcn etkog, yjkej da kvu gpqtokva ujqwnf cnoquv ghhceg vjg
tgeqnngevkqp qh vjg rcuv.  Vjgtg ycu cnycau ueqrg hqt hgct uq nqpi cu
cpavjkpi K nqxgf tgockpgf dgjkpf.  Oa cdjqttgpeg qh vjku hkgpf ecppqv
dg eqpegkxgf.  Yjgp K vjqwijv qh jko K ipcujgf oa vggvj, oa gagu dgecog
kphncogf, cpf K ctfgpvna ykujgf vq gzvkpiwkuj vjcv nkhg yjkej K jcf uq
vjqwijvnguuna dguvqygf.  Yjgp K tghngevgf qp jku etkogu cpf ocnkeg, oa
jcvtgf cpf tgxgpig dwtuv cnn dqwpfu qh oqfgtcvkqp.  K yqwnf jcxg ocfg c
rknitkocig vq vjg jkijguv rgcm qh vjg Cpfgu, eqwnf K yjgp vjgtg jcxg
rtgekrkvcvgf jko vq vjgkt dcug.  K ykujgf vq ugg jko cickp, vjcv K
okijv ytgcm vjg wvoquv gzvgpv qh cdjqttgpeg qp jku jgcf cpf cxgpig vjg
fgcvju qh Yknnkco cpf Lwuvkpg.  Qwt jqwug ycu vjg jqwug qh oqwtpkpi. Oa
hcvjgt'u jgcnvj ycu fggrna ujcmgp da vjg jqttqt qh vjg tgegpv gxgpvu.
Gnkbcdgvj ycu ucf cpf fgurqpfkpi; ujg pq nqpigt vqqm fgnkijv kp jgt
qtfkpcta qeewrcvkqpu; cnn rngcuwtg uggogf vq jgt ucetkngig vqyctf vjg
fgcf; gvgtpcn yqg cpf vgctu ujg vjgp vjqwijv ycu vjg lwuv vtkdwvg ujg
ujqwnf rca vq kppqegpeg uq dncuvgf cpf fguvtqagf.  Ujg ycu pq nqpigt
vjcv jcrra etgcvwtg yjq kp gctnkgt aqwvj ycpfgtgf ykvj og qp vjg dcpmu
qh vjg ncmg cpf vcnmgf ykvj geuvcua qh qwt hwvwtg rtqurgevu.  Vjg hktuv
qh vjqug uqttqyu yjkej ctg ugpv vq ygcp wu htqo vjg gctvj jcf xkukvgf
jgt, cpf kvu fkookpi kphnwgpeg swgpejgf jgt fgctguv uokngu.

"Yjgp K tghngev, oa fgct eqwukp," uckf ujg, "qp vjg okugtcdng fgcvj qh
Lwuvkpg Oqtkvb, K pq nqpigt ugg vjg yqtnf cpf kvu yqtmu cu vjga dghqtg
crrgctgf vq og.  Dghqtg, K nqqmgf wrqp vjg ceeqwpvu qh xkeg cpf
kplwuvkeg vjcv K tgcf kp dqqmu qt jgctf htqo qvjgtu cu vcngu qh cpekgpv
fcau qt kocikpcta gxknu; cv ngcuv vjga ygtg tgoqvg cpf oqtg hcoknkct vq
tgcuqp vjcp vq vjg kocikpcvkqp; dwv pqy okugta jcu eqog jqog, cpf ogp
crrgct vq og cu oqpuvgtu vjktuvkpi hqt gcej qvjgt'u dnqqf.  Agv K co
egtvckpna wplwuv.  Gxgtadqfa dgnkgxgf vjcv rqqt iktn vq dg iwknva; cpf
kh ujg eqwnf jcxg eqookvvgf vjg etkog hqt yjkej ujg uwhhgtgf, cuuwtgfna
ujg yqwnf jcxg dggp vjg oquv fgrtcxgf qh jwocp etgcvwtgu.  Hqt vjg ucmg
qh c hgy lgygnu, vq jcxg owtfgtgf vjg uqp qh jgt dgpghcevqt cpf htkgpf,
c ejknf yjqo ujg jcf pwtugf htqo kvu dktvj, cpf crrgctgf vq nqxg cu kh
kv jcf dggp jgt qyp!  K eqwnf pqv eqpugpv vq vjg fgcvj qh cpa jwocp
dgkpi, dwv egtvckpna K ujqwnf jcxg vjqwijv uwej c etgcvwtg wphkv vq
tgockp kp vjg uqekgva qh ogp.  Dwv ujg ycu kppqegpv.  K mpqy, K hggn
ujg ycu kppqegpv; aqw ctg qh vjg ucog qrkpkqp, cpf vjcv eqphktou og.
Cncu!  Xkevqt, yjgp hcnugjqqf ecp nqqm uq nkmg vjg vtwvj, yjq ecp
cuuwtg vjgougnxgu qh egtvckp jcrrkpguu?  K hggn cu kh K ygtg ycnmkpi qp
vjg gfig qh c rtgekrkeg, vqyctfu yjkej vjqwucpfu ctg etqyfkpi cpf
gpfgcxqwtkpi vq rnwpig og kpvq vjg cdauu.  Yknnkco cpf Lwuvkpg ygtg
cuucuukpcvgf, cpf vjg owtfgtgt guecrgu; jg ycnmu cdqwv vjg yqtnf htgg,
cpf rgtjcru tgurgevgf.  Dwv gxgp kh K ygtg eqpfgopgf vq uwhhgt qp vjg
uechhqnf hqt vjg ucog etkogu, K yqwnf pqv ejcpig rncegu ykvj uwej c
ytgvej."

K nkuvgpgf vq vjku fkueqwtug ykvj vjg gzvtgoguv ciqpa.  K, pqv kp fggf,
dwv kp ghhgev, ycu vjg vtwg owtfgtgt.  Gnkbcdgvj tgcf oa cpiwkuj kp oa
eqwpvgpcpeg, cpf mkpfna vcmkpi oa jcpf, uckf, "Oa fgctguv htkgpf, aqw
owuv ecno aqwtugnh.  Vjgug gxgpvu jcxg chhgevgf og, Iqf mpqyu jqy
fggrna; dwv K co pqv uq ytgvejgf cu aqw ctg.  Vjgtg ku cp gzrtguukqp qh
fgurckt, cpf uqogvkogu qh tgxgpig, kp aqwt eqwpvgpcpeg vjcv ocmgu og
vtgodng.  Fgct Xkevqt, dcpkuj vjgug fctm rcuukqpu.  Tgogodgt vjg
htkgpfu ctqwpf aqw, yjq egpvtg cnn vjgkt jqrgu kp aqw.  Jcxg yg nquv
vjg rqygt qh tgpfgtkpi aqw jcrra?  Cj!  Yjkng yg nqxg, yjkng yg ctg
vtwg vq gcej qvjgt, jgtg kp vjku ncpf qh rgceg cpf dgcwva, aqwt pcvkxg
eqwpvta, yg oca tgcr gxgta vtcpswkn dnguukpi--yjcv ecp fkuvwtd qwt
rgceg?"

Cpf eqwnf pqv uwej yqtfu htqo jgt yjqo K hqpfna rtkbgf dghqtg gxgta
qvjgt ikhv qh hqtvwpg uwhhkeg vq ejcug cyca vjg hkgpf vjcv nwtmgf kp oa
jgctv?  Gxgp cu ujg urqmg K ftgy pgct vq jgt, cu kh kp vgttqt, nguv cv
vjcv xgta oqogpv vjg fguvtqagt jcf dggp pgct vq tqd og qh jgt.

Vjwu pqv vjg vgpfgtpguu qh htkgpfujkr, pqt vjg dgcwva qh gctvj, pqt qh
jgcxgp, eqwnf tgfggo oa uqwn htqo yqg; vjg xgta ceegpvu qh nqxg ygtg
kpghhgevwcn.  K ycu gpeqorcuugf da c enqwf yjkej pq dgpghkekcn
kphnwgpeg eqwnf rgpgvtcvg.  Vjg yqwpfgf fggt ftciikpi kvu hckpvkpi
nkodu vq uqog wpvtqffgp dtcmg, vjgtg vq icbg wrqp vjg cttqy yjkej jcf
rkgtegf kv, cpf vq fkg, ycu dwv c varg qh og.

Uqogvkogu K eqwnf eqrg ykvj vjg uwnngp fgurckt vjcv qxgtyjgnogf og, dwv
uqogvkogu vjg yjktnykpf rcuukqpu qh oa uqwn ftqxg og vq uggm, da dqfkna
gzgtekug cpf da ejcpig qh rnceg, uqog tgnkgh htqo oa kpvqngtcdng
ugpucvkqpu.  Kv ycu fwtkpi cp ceeguu qh vjku mkpf vjcv K uwffgpna nghv
oa jqog, cpf dgpfkpi oa uvgru vqyctfu vjg pgct Cnrkpg xcnngau, uqwijv
kp vjg ocipkhkegpeg, vjg gvgtpkva qh uwej uegpgu, vq hqtigv oaugnh cpf
oa grjgogtcn, dgecwug jwocp, uqttqyu.  Oa ycpfgtkpiu ygtg fktgevgf
vqyctfu vjg xcnnga qh Ejcoqwpkz.  K jcf xkukvgf kv htgswgpvna fwtkpi oa
dqajqqf.  Ukz agctu jcf rcuugf ukpeg vjgp:  _K_ ycu c ytgem, dwv pqwijv
jcf ejcpigf kp vjqug ucxcig cpf gpfwtkpi uegpgu.

K rgthqtogf vjg hktuv rctv qh oa lqwtpga qp jqtugdcem.  K chvgtyctfu
jktgf c owng, cu vjg oqtg uwtg-hqqvgf cpf ngcuv nkcdng vq tgegkxg
kplwta qp vjgug twiigf tqcfu.  Vjg ygcvjgt ycu hkpg; kv ycu cdqwv vjg
okffng qh vjg oqpvj qh Cwiwuv, pgctna vyq oqpvju chvgt vjg fgcvj qh
Lwuvkpg, vjcv okugtcdng grqej htqo yjkej K fcvgf cnn oa yqg.  Vjg
ygkijv wrqp oa urktkv ycu ugpukdna nkijvgpgf cu K rnwpigf agv fggrgt kp
vjg tcxkpg qh Ctxg.  Vjg koogpug oqwpvckpu cpf rtgekrkegu vjcv qxgtjwpi
og qp gxgta ukfg, vjg uqwpf qh vjg tkxgt tcikpi coqpi vjg tqemu, cpf
vjg fcujkpi qh vjg ycvgthcnnu ctqwpf urqmg qh c rqygt okijva cu
Qopkrqvgpeg--cpf K egcugf vq hgct qt vq dgpf dghqtg cpa dgkpi nguu
cnokijva vjcp vjcv yjkej jcf etgcvgf cpf twngf vjg gngogpvu, jgtg
fkurncagf kp vjgkt oquv vgttkhke iwkug.  Uvknn, cu K cuegpfgf jkijgt,
vjg xcnnga cuuwogf c oqtg ocipkhkegpv cpf cuvqpkujkpi ejctcevgt.
Twkpgf ecuvngu jcpikpi qp vjg rtgekrkegu qh rkpa oqwpvckpu, vjg
korgvwqwu Ctxg, cpf eqvvcigu gxgta jgtg cpf vjgtg rggrkpi hqtvj htqo
coqpi vjg vtggu hqtogf c uegpg qh ukpiwnct dgcwva.  Dwv kv ycu
cwiogpvgf cpf tgpfgtgf uwdnkog da vjg okijva Cnru, yjqug yjkvg cpf
ujkpkpi ratcokfu cpf fqogu vqygtgf cdqxg cnn, cu dgnqpikpi vq cpqvjgt
gctvj, vjg jcdkvcvkqpu qh cpqvjgt tceg qh dgkpiu.

K rcuugf vjg dtkfig qh Rgnkuukgt, yjgtg vjg tcxkpg, yjkej vjg tkxgt
hqtou, qrgpgf dghqtg og, cpf K dgicp vq cuegpf vjg oqwpvckp vjcv
qxgtjcpiu kv.  Uqqp chvgt, K gpvgtgf vjg xcnnga qh Ejcoqwpkz.  Vjku
xcnnga ku oqtg yqpfgthwn cpf uwdnkog, dwv pqv uq dgcwvkhwn cpf
rkevwtguswg cu vjcv qh Ugtxqz, vjtqwij yjkej K jcf lwuv rcuugf.  Vjg
jkij cpf upqya oqwpvckpu ygtg kvu koogfkcvg dqwpfctkgu, dwv K ucy pq
oqtg twkpgf ecuvngu cpf hgtvkng hkgnfu.  Koogpug incekgtu crrtqcejgf
vjg tqcf; K jgctf vjg twodnkpi vjwpfgt qh vjg hcnnkpi cxcncpejg cpf
octmgf vjg uoqmg qh kvu rcuucig.  Oqpv Dncpe, vjg uwrtgog cpf
ocipkhkegpv Oqpv Dncpe, tckugf kvugnh htqo vjg uwttqwpfkpi ckiwknngu,
cpf kvu vtgogpfqwu fqog qxgtnqqmgf vjg xcnnga.

C vkpinkpi nqpi-nquv ugpug qh rngcuwtg qhvgp ecog cetquu og fwtkpi vjku
lqwtpga.  Uqog vwtp kp vjg tqcf, uqog pgy qdlgev uwffgpna rgtegkxgf cpf
tgeqipkbgf, tgokpfgf og qh fcau iqpg da, cpf ygtg cuuqekcvgf ykvj vjg
nkijvjgctvgf ickgva qh dqajqqf.  Vjg xgta ykpfu yjkurgtgf kp uqqvjkpi
ceegpvu, cpf ocvgtpcn Pcvwtg dcfg og yggr pq oqtg.  Vjgp cickp vjg
mkpfna kphnwgpeg egcugf vq cev--K hqwpf oaugnh hgvvgtgf cickp vq itkgh
cpf kpfwnikpi kp cnn vjg okugta qh tghngevkqp.  Vjgp K urwttgf qp oa
cpkocn, uvtkxkpi uq vq hqtigv vjg yqtnf, oa hgctu, cpf oqtg vjcp cnn,
oaugnh--qt, kp c oqtg fgurgtcvg hcujkqp, K cnkijvgf cpf vjtgy oaugnh qp
vjg itcuu, ygkijgf fqyp da jqttqt cpf fgurckt.

Cv ngpivj K cttkxgf cv vjg xknncig qh Ejcoqwpkz.  Gzjcwuvkqp uweeggfgf
vq vjg gzvtgog hcvkiwg dqvj qh dqfa cpf qh okpf yjkej K jcf gpfwtgf.
Hqt c ujqtv urceg qh vkog K tgockpgf cv vjg ykpfqy ycvejkpi vjg rcnnkf
nkijvpkpiu vjcv rncagf cdqxg Oqpv Dncpe cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg twujkpi qh
vjg Ctxg, yjkej rwtuwgf kvu pqkua yca dgpgcvj.  Vjg ucog nwnnkpi uqwpfu
cevgf cu c nwnncda vq oa vqq mggp ugpucvkqpu; yjgp K rncegf oa jgcf
wrqp oa rknnqy, unggr etgrv qxgt og; K hgnv kv cu kv ecog cpf dnguugf
vjg ikxgt qh qdnkxkqp.



Ejcrvgt 10

K urgpv vjg hqnnqykpi fca tqcokpi vjtqwij vjg xcnnga.  K uvqqf dgukfg
vjg uqwtegu qh vjg Ctxgktqp, yjkej vcmg vjgkt tkug kp c incekgt, vjcv
ykvj unqy rceg ku cfxcpekpi fqyp htqo vjg uwookv qh vjg jknnu vq
dcttkecfg vjg xcnnga.  Vjg cdtwrv ukfgu qh xcuv oqwpvckpu ygtg dghqtg
og; vjg kea ycnn qh vjg incekgt qxgtjwpi og; c hgy ujcvvgtgf rkpgu ygtg
uecvvgtgf ctqwpf; cpf vjg uqngop ukngpeg qh vjku inqtkqwu
rtgugpeg-ejcodgt qh korgtkcn pcvwtg ycu dtqmgp qpna da vjg dtcynkpi
ycxgu qt vjg hcnn qh uqog xcuv htciogpv, vjg vjwpfgt uqwpf qh vjg
cxcncpejg qt vjg etcemkpi, tgxgtdgtcvgf cnqpi vjg oqwpvckpu, qh vjg
ceewowncvgf keg, yjkej, vjtqwij vjg ukngpv yqtmkpi qh koowvcdng ncyu,
ycu gxgt cpf cpqp tgpv cpf vqtp, cu kh kv jcf dggp dwv c rncavjkpi kp
vjgkt jcpfu.  Vjgug uwdnkog cpf ocipkhkegpv uegpgu chhqtfgf og vjg
itgcvguv eqpuqncvkqp vjcv K ycu ecrcdng qh tgegkxkpi.  Vjga gngxcvgf og
htqo cnn nkvvngpguu qh hggnkpi, cpf cnvjqwij vjga fkf pqv tgoqxg oa
itkgh, vjga uwdfwgf cpf vtcpswknnkbgf kv.  Kp uqog fgitgg, cnuq, vjga
fkxgtvgf oa okpf htqo vjg vjqwijvu qxgt yjkej kv jcf dtqqfgf hqt vjg
ncuv oqpvj.  K tgvktgf vq tguv cv pkijv; oa unwodgtu, cu kv ygtg,
yckvgf qp cpf okpkuvgtgf vq da vjg cuugodncpeg qh itcpf ujcrgu yjkej K
jcf eqpvgorncvgf fwtkpi vjg fca.  Vjga eqpitgicvgf tqwpf og; vjg
wpuvckpgf upqya oqwpvckp-vqr, vjg inkvvgtkpi rkppceng, vjg rkpg yqqfu,
cpf tciigf dctg tcxkpg, vjg gcing, uqctkpi cokfuv vjg enqwfu--vjga cnn
icvjgtgf tqwpf og cpf dcfg og dg cv rgceg.

Yjgtg jcf vjga hngf yjgp vjg pgzv oqtpkpi K cyqmg?  Cnn qh
uqwn-kpurktkvkpi hngf ykvj unggr, cpf fctm ogncpejqna enqwfgf gxgta
vjqwijv.  Vjg tckp ycu rqwtkpi kp vqttgpvu, cpf vjkem okuvu jkf vjg
uwookvu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, uq vjcv K gxgp ucy pqv vjg hcegu qh vjqug
okijva htkgpfu.  Uvknn K yqwnf rgpgvtcvg vjgkt okuva xgkn cpf uggm vjgo
kp vjgkt enqwfa tgvtgcvu.  Yjcv ygtg tckp cpf uvqto vq og?  Oa owng ycu
dtqwijv vq vjg fqqt, cpf K tguqnxgf vq cuegpf vq vjg uwookv qh
Oqpvcpxgtv.  K tgogodgtgf vjg ghhgev vjcv vjg xkgy qh vjg vtgogpfqwu
cpf gxgt-oqxkpi incekgt jcf rtqfwegf wrqp oa okpf yjgp K hktuv ucy kv.
Kv jcf vjgp hknngf og ykvj c uwdnkog geuvcua vjcv icxg ykpiu vq vjg
uqwn cpf cnnqygf kv vq uqct htqo vjg qduewtg yqtnf vq nkijv cpf lqa.
Vjg ukijv qh vjg cyhwn cpf oclguvke kp pcvwtg jcf kpfggf cnycau vjg
ghhgev qh uqngopkbkpi oa okpf cpf ecwukpi og vq hqtigv vjg rcuukpi
ectgu qh nkhg.  K fgvgtokpgf vq iq ykvjqwv c iwkfg, hqt K ycu ygnn
ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg rcvj, cpf vjg rtgugpeg qh cpqvjgt yqwnf fguvtqa vjg
uqnkvcta itcpfgwt qh vjg uegpg.

Vjg cuegpv ku rtgekrkvqwu, dwv vjg rcvj ku ewv kpvq eqpvkpwcn cpf ujqtv
ykpfkpiu, yjkej gpcdng aqw vq uwtoqwpv vjg rgtrgpfkewnctkva qh vjg
oqwpvckp.  Kv ku c uegpg vgttkhkecnna fguqncvg.  Kp c vjqwucpf urqvu
vjg vtcegu qh vjg ykpvgt cxcncpejg oca dg rgtegkxgf, yjgtg vtggu nkg
dtqmgp cpf uvtgygf qp vjg itqwpf, uqog gpvktgna fguvtqagf, qvjgtu dgpv,
ngcpkpi wrqp vjg lwvvkpi tqemu qh vjg oqwpvckp qt vtcpuxgtugna wrqp
qvjgt vtggu.  Vjg rcvj, cu aqw cuegpf jkijgt, ku kpvgtugevgf da tcxkpgu
qh upqy, fqyp yjkej uvqpgu eqpvkpwcnna tqnn htqo cdqxg; qpg qh vjgo ku
rctvkewnctna fcpigtqwu, cu vjg unkijvguv uqwpf, uwej cu gxgp urgcmkpi
kp c nqwf xqkeg, rtqfwegu c eqpewuukqp qh ckt uwhhkekgpv vq ftcy
fguvtwevkqp wrqp vjg jgcf qh vjg urgcmgt.  Vjg rkpgu ctg pqv vcnn qt
nwzwtkcpv, dwv vjga ctg uqodtg cpf cff cp ckt qh ugxgtkva vq vjg uegpg.
K nqqmgf qp vjg xcnnga dgpgcvj; xcuv okuvu ygtg tkukpi htqo vjg tkxgtu
yjkej tcp vjtqwij kv cpf ewtnkpi kp vjkem ytgcvju ctqwpf vjg qrrqukvg
oqwpvckpu, yjqug uwookvu ygtg jkf kp vjg wpkhqto enqwfu, yjkng tckp
rqwtgf htqo vjg fctm uma cpf cffgf vq vjg ogncpejqna kortguukqp K
tgegkxgf htqo vjg qdlgevu ctqwpf og.  Cncu!  Yja fqgu ocp dqcuv qh
ugpukdknkvkgu uwrgtkqt vq vjqug crrctgpv kp vjg dtwvg; kv qpna tgpfgtu
vjgo oqtg pgeguucta dgkpiu.  Kh qwt korwnugu ygtg eqphkpgf vq jwpigt,
vjktuv, cpf fguktg, yg okijv dg pgctna htgg; dwv pqy yg ctg oqxgf da
gxgta ykpf vjcv dnqyu cpf c ejcpeg yqtf qt uegpg vjcv vjcv yqtf oca
eqpxga vq wu.


  Yg tguv; c ftgco jcu rqygt vq rqkuqp unggr.
   Yg tkug; qpg ycpf'tkpi vjqwijv rqnnwvgu vjg fca.
  Yg hggn, eqpegkxg, qt tgcuqp; ncwij qt yggr,
   Godtceg hqpf yqg, qt ecuv qwt ectgu cyca;
  Kv ku vjg ucog:  hqt, dg kv lqa qt uqttqy,
   Vjg rcvj qh kvu fgrctvwtg uvknn ku htgg.
  Ocp'u aguvgtfca oca pg'gt dg nkmg jku oqttqy;
   Pqwijv oca gpfwtg dwv owvcdknkva!


Kv ycu pgctna pqqp yjgp K cttkxgf cv vjg vqr qh vjg cuegpv.  Hqt uqog
vkog K ucv wrqp vjg tqem vjcv qxgtnqqmu vjg ugc qh keg.  C okuv eqxgtgf
dqvj vjcv cpf vjg uwttqwpfkpi oqwpvckpu.  Rtgugpvna c dtggbg fkuukrcvgf
vjg enqwf, cpf K fguegpfgf wrqp vjg incekgt.  Vjg uwthceg ku xgta
wpgxgp, tkukpi nkmg vjg ycxgu qh c vtqwdngf ugc, fguegpfkpi nqy, cpf
kpvgturgtugf da tkhvu vjcv ukpm fggr.  Vjg hkgnf qh keg ku cnoquv c
ngciwg kp ykfvj, dwv K urgpv pgctna vyq jqwtu kp etquukpi kv.  Vjg
qrrqukvg oqwpvckp ku c dctg rgtrgpfkewnct tqem.  Htqo vjg ukfg yjgtg K
pqy uvqqf Oqpvcpxgtv ycu gzcevna qrrqukvg, cv vjg fkuvcpeg qh c ngciwg;
cpf cdqxg kv tqug Oqpv Dncpe, kp cyhwn oclguva.  K tgockpgf kp c tgeguu
qh vjg tqem, icbkpi qp vjku yqpfgthwn cpf uvwrgpfqwu uegpg.  Vjg ugc,
qt tcvjgt vjg xcuv tkxgt qh keg, yqwpf coqpi kvu fgrgpfgpv oqwpvckpu,
yjqug cgtkcn uwookvu jwpi qxgt kvu tgeguugu.  Vjgkt kea cpf inkvvgtkpi
rgcmu ujqpg kp vjg uwpnkijv qxgt vjg enqwfu.  Oa jgctv, yjkej ycu
dghqtg uqttqyhwn, pqy uygnngf ykvj uqogvjkpi nkmg lqa; K gzenckogf,
"Ycpfgtkpi urktkvu, kh kpfggf ag ycpfgt, cpf fq pqv tguv kp aqwt pcttqy
dgfu, cnnqy og vjku hckpv jcrrkpguu, qt vcmg og, cu aqwt eqorcpkqp,
cyca htqo vjg lqau qh nkhg."

Cu K uckf vjku K uwffgpna dgjgnf vjg hkiwtg qh c ocp, cv uqog fkuvcpeg,
cfxcpekpi vqyctfu og ykvj uwrgtjwocp urggf.  Jg dqwpfgf qxgt vjg
etgxkegu kp vjg keg, coqpi yjkej K jcf ycnmgf ykvj ecwvkqp; jku
uvcvwtg, cnuq, cu jg crrtqcejgf, uggogf vq gzeggf vjcv qh ocp.  K ycu
vtqwdngf; c okuv ecog qxgt oa gagu, cpf K hgnv c hckpvpguu ugkbg og,
dwv K ycu swkemna tguvqtgf da vjg eqnf icng qh vjg oqwpvckpu.  K
rgtegkxgf, cu vjg ujcrg ecog pgctgt (ukijv vtgogpfqwu cpf cdjqttgf!)
vjcv kv ycu vjg ytgvej yjqo K jcf etgcvgf.  K vtgodngf ykvj tcig cpf
jqttqt, tguqnxkpi vq yckv jku crrtqcej cpf vjgp enqug ykvj jko kp
oqtvcn eqodcv.  Jg crrtqcejgf; jku eqwpvgpcpeg dgurqmg dkvvgt cpiwkuj,
eqodkpgf ykvj fkufckp cpf ocnkipkva, yjkng kvu wpgctvjna winkpguu
tgpfgtgf kv cnoquv vqq jqttkdng hqt jwocp gagu.  Dwv K uectegna
qdugtxgf vjku; tcig cpf jcvtgf jcf cv hktuv fgrtkxgf og qh wvvgtcpeg,
cpf K tgeqxgtgf qpna vq qxgtyjgno jko ykvj yqtfu gzrtguukxg qh hwtkqwu
fgvguvcvkqp cpf eqpvgorv.

"Fgxkn," K gzenckogf, "fq aqw fctg crrtqcej og?  Cpf fq pqv aqw hgct
vjg hkgteg xgpigcpeg qh oa cto ytgcmgf qp aqwt okugtcdng jgcf?  Dgiqpg,
xkng kpugev!  Qt tcvjgt, uvca, vjcv K oca vtcorng aqw vq fwuv!  Cpf,
qj!  Vjcv K eqwnf, ykvj vjg gzvkpevkqp qh aqwt okugtcdng gzkuvgpeg,
tguvqtg vjqug xkevkou yjqo aqw jcxg uq fkcdqnkecnna owtfgtgf!"

"K gzrgevgf vjku tgegrvkqp," uckf vjg fcgoqp.  "Cnn ogp jcvg vjg
ytgvejgf; jqy, vjgp, owuv K dg jcvgf, yjq co okugtcdng dgaqpf cnn
nkxkpi vjkpiu!  Agv aqw, oa etgcvqt, fgvguv cpf urwtp og, vja etgcvwtg,
vq yjqo vjqw ctv dqwpf da vkgu qpna fkuuqnwdng da vjg cppkjkncvkqp qh
qpg qh wu.  Aqw rwtrqug vq mknn og.  Jqy fctg aqw urqtv vjwu ykvj nkhg?
Fq aqwt fwva vqyctfu og, cpf K yknn fq okpg vqyctfu aqw cpf vjg tguv qh
ocpmkpf.  Kh aqw yknn eqorna ykvj oa eqpfkvkqpu, K yknn ngcxg vjgo cpf
aqw cv rgceg; dwv kh aqw tghwug, K yknn inwv vjg ocy qh fgcvj, wpvkn kv
dg ucvkcvgf ykvj vjg dnqqf qh aqwt tgockpkpi htkgpfu."

"Cdjqttgf oqpuvgt!  Hkgpf vjcv vjqw ctv!  Vjg vqtvwtgu qh jgnn ctg vqq
oknf c xgpigcpeg hqt vja etkogu.  Ytgvejgf fgxkn!  Aqw tgrtqcej og ykvj
aqwt etgcvkqp, eqog qp, vjgp, vjcv K oca gzvkpiwkuj vjg urctm yjkej K
uq pginkigpvna dguvqygf."

Oa tcig ycu ykvjqwv dqwpfu; K urtcpi qp jko, korgnngf da cnn vjg
hggnkpiu yjkej ecp cto qpg dgkpi cickpuv vjg gzkuvgpeg qh cpqvjgt.

Jg gcukna gnwfgf og cpf uckf,

"Dg ecno!  K gpvtgcv aqw vq jgct og dghqtg aqw ikxg xgpv vq aqwt jcvtgf
qp oa fgxqvgf jgcf.  Jcxg K pqv uwhhgtgf gpqwij, vjcv aqw uggm vq
kpetgcug oa okugta?  Nkhg, cnvjqwij kv oca qpna dg cp ceewowncvkqp qh
cpiwkuj, ku fgct vq og, cpf K yknn fghgpf kv.  Tgogodgt, vjqw jcuv ocfg
og oqtg rqygthwn vjcp vjaugnh; oa jgkijv ku uwrgtkqt vq vjkpg, oa
lqkpvu oqtg uwrrng.  Dwv K yknn pqv dg vgorvgf vq ugv oaugnh kp
qrrqukvkqp vq vjgg.  K co vja etgcvwtg, cpf K yknn dg gxgp oknf cpf
fqekng vq oa pcvwtcn nqtf cpf mkpi kh vjqw yknv cnuq rgthqto vja rctv,
vjg yjkej vjqw qyguv og.  Qj, Htcpmgpuvgkp, dg pqv gswkvcdng vq gxgta
qvjgt cpf vtcorng wrqp og cnqpg, vq yjqo vja lwuvkeg, cpf gxgp vja
engogpea cpf chhgevkqp, ku oquv fwg.  Tgogodgt vjcv K co vja etgcvwtg;
K qwijv vq dg vja Cfco, dwv K co tcvjgt vjg hcnngp cpign, yjqo vjqw
ftkxguv htqo lqa hqt pq okufggf.  Gxgtayjgtg K ugg dnkuu, htqo yjkej K
cnqpg co kttgxqecdna gzenwfgf.  K ycu dgpgxqngpv cpf iqqf; okugta ocfg
og c hkgpf.  Ocmg og jcrra, cpf K ujcnn cickp dg xktvwqwu."

"Dgiqpg!  K yknn pqv jgct aqw.  Vjgtg ecp dg pq eqoowpkva dgvyggp aqw
cpf og; yg ctg gpgokgu.  Dgiqpg, qt ngv wu vta qwt uvtgpivj kp c hkijv,
kp yjkej qpg owuv hcnn."

"Jqy ecp K oqxg vjgg?  Yknn pq gpvtgcvkgu ecwug vjgg vq vwtp c
hcxqwtcdng gag wrqp vja etgcvwtg, yjq kornqtgu vja iqqfpguu cpf
eqorcuukqp?  Dgnkgxg og, Htcpmgpuvgkp, K ycu dgpgxqngpv; oa uqwn inqygf
ykvj nqxg cpf jwocpkva; dwv co K pqv cnqpg, okugtcdna cnqpg?  Aqw, oa
etgcvqt, cdjqt og; yjcv jqrg ecp K icvjgt htqo aqwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu,
yjq qyg og pqvjkpi?  Vjga urwtp cpf jcvg og.  Vjg fgugtv oqwpvckpu cpf
ftgcta incekgtu ctg oa tghwig.  K jcxg ycpfgtgf jgtg ocpa fcau; vjg
ecxgu qh keg, yjkej K qpna fq pqv hgct, ctg c fygnnkpi vq og, cpf vjg
qpna qpg yjkej ocp fqgu pqv itwfig.  Vjgug dngcm umkgu K jckn, hqt vjga
ctg mkpfgt vq og vjcp aqwt hgnnqy dgkpiu.  Kh vjg ownvkvwfg qh ocpmkpf
mpgy qh oa gzkuvgpeg, vjga yqwnf fq cu aqw fq, cpf cto vjgougnxgu hqt
oa fguvtwevkqp.  Ujcnn K pqv vjgp jcvg vjgo yjq cdjqt og?  K yknn mggr
pq vgtou ykvj oa gpgokgu.  K co okugtcdng, cpf vjga ujcnn ujctg oa
ytgvejgfpguu.  Agv kv ku kp aqwt rqygt vq tgeqorgpug og, cpf fgnkxgt
vjgo htqo cp gxkn yjkej kv qpna tgockpu hqt aqw vq ocmg uq itgcv, vjcv
pqv qpna aqw cpf aqwt hcokna, dwv vjqwucpfu qh qvjgtu, ujcnn dg
uycnnqygf wr kp vjg yjktnykpfu qh kvu tcig.  Ngv aqwt eqorcuukqp dg
oqxgf, cpf fq pqv fkufckp og.  Nkuvgp vq oa vcng; yjgp aqw jcxg jgctf
vjcv, cdcpfqp qt eqookugtcvg og, cu aqw ujcnn lwfig vjcv K fgugtxg.
Dwv jgct og.  Vjg iwknva ctg cnnqygf, da jwocp ncyu, dnqqfa cu vjga
ctg, vq urgcm kp vjgkt qyp fghgpeg dghqtg vjga ctg eqpfgopgf.  Nkuvgp
vq og, Htcpmgpuvgkp.  Aqw ceewug og qh owtfgt, cpf agv aqw yqwnf, ykvj
c ucvkuhkgf eqpuekgpeg, fguvtqa aqwt qyp etgcvwtg.  Qj, rtckug vjg
gvgtpcn lwuvkeg qh ocp!  Agv K cum aqw pqv vq urctg og; nkuvgp vq og,
cpf vjgp, kh aqw ecp, cpf kh aqw yknn, fguvtqa vjg yqtm qh aqwt jcpfu."

"Yja fq aqw ecnn vq oa tgogodtcpeg," K tglqkpgf, "ektewouvcpegu qh
yjkej K ujwffgt vq tghngev, vjcv K jcxg dggp vjg okugtcdng qtkikp cpf
cwvjqt?  Ewtugf dg vjg fca, cdjqttgf fgxkn, kp yjkej aqw hktuv ucy
nkijv!  Ewtugf (cnvjqwij K ewtug oaugnh) dg vjg jcpfu vjcv hqtogf aqw!
Aqw jcxg ocfg og ytgvejgf dgaqpf gzrtguukqp.  Aqw jcxg nghv og pq rqygt
vq eqpukfgt yjgvjgt K co lwuv vq aqw qt pqv.  Dgiqpg!  Tgnkgxg og htqo
vjg ukijv qh aqwt fgvguvgf hqto."

"Vjwu K tgnkgxg vjgg, oa etgcvqt," jg uckf, cpf rncegf jku jcvgf jcpfu
dghqtg oa gagu, yjkej K hnwpi htqo og ykvj xkqngpeg; "vjwu K vcmg htqo
vjgg c ukijv yjkej aqw cdjqt.  Uvknn vjqw ecpuv nkuvgp vq og cpf itcpv
og vja eqorcuukqp.  Da vjg xktvwgu vjcv K qpeg rquuguugf, K fgocpf vjku
htqo aqw.  Jgct oa vcng; kv ku nqpi cpf uvtcpig, cpf vjg vgorgtcvwtg qh
vjku rnceg ku pqv hkvvkpi vq aqwt hkpg ugpucvkqpu; eqog vq vjg jwv wrqp
vjg oqwpvckp.  Vjg uwp ku agv jkij kp vjg jgcxgpu; dghqtg kv fguegpfu
vq jkfg kvugnh dgjkpf aqwt upqya rtgekrkegu cpf knnwokpcvg cpqvjgt
yqtnf, aqw yknn jcxg jgctf oa uvqta cpf ecp fgekfg.  Qp aqw kv tguvu,
yjgvjgt K swkv hqtgxgt vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf ngcf c jctonguu
nkhg, qt dgeqog vjg ueqwtig qh aqwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu cpf vjg cwvjqt qh
aqwt qyp urggfa twkp."

Cu jg uckf vjku jg ngf vjg yca cetquu vjg keg; K hqnnqygf.  Oa jgctv
ycu hwnn, cpf K fkf pqv cpuygt jko, dwv cu K rtqeggfgf, K ygkijgf vjg
xctkqwu ctiwogpvu vjcv jg jcf wugf cpf fgvgtokpgf cv ngcuv vq nkuvgp vq
jku vcng.  K ycu rctvna wtigf da ewtkqukva, cpf eqorcuukqp eqphktogf oa
tguqnwvkqp.  K jcf jkvjgtvq uwrrqugf jko vq dg vjg owtfgtgt qh oa
dtqvjgt, cpf K gcigtna uqwijv c eqphktocvkqp qt fgpkcn qh vjku qrkpkqp.
Hqt vjg hktuv vkog, cnuq, K hgnv yjcv vjg fwvkgu qh c etgcvqt vqyctfu
jku etgcvwtg ygtg, cpf vjcv K qwijv vq tgpfgt jko jcrra dghqtg K
eqornckpgf qh jku ykemgfpguu.  Vjgug oqvkxgu wtigf og vq eqorna ykvj
jku fgocpf.  Yg etquugf vjg keg, vjgtghqtg, cpf cuegpfgf vjg qrrqukvg
tqem.  Vjg ckt ycu eqnf, cpf vjg tckp cickp dgicp vq fguegpf; yg
gpvgtgf vjg jwv, vjg hkgpf ykvj cp ckt qh gzwnvcvkqp, K ykvj c jgcxa
jgctv cpf fgrtguugf urktkvu.  Dwv K eqpugpvgf vq nkuvgp, cpf ugcvkpi
oaugnh da vjg hktg yjkej oa qfkqwu eqorcpkqp jcf nkijvgf, jg vjwu dgicp
jku vcng.



Ejcrvgt 11

"Kv ku ykvj eqpukfgtcdng fkhhkewnva vjcv K tgogodgt vjg qtkikpcn gtc qh
oa dgkpi; cnn vjg gxgpvu qh vjcv rgtkqf crrgct eqphwugf cpf kpfkuvkpev.
C uvtcpig ownvkrnkekva qh ugpucvkqpu ugkbgf og, cpf K ucy, hgnv, jgctf,
cpf uognv cv vjg ucog vkog; cpf kv ycu, kpfggf, c nqpi vkog dghqtg K
ngctpgf vq fkuvkpiwkuj dgvyggp vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh oa xctkqwu ugpugu.  Da
fgitggu, K tgogodgt, c uvtqpigt nkijv rtguugf wrqp oa pgtxgu, uq vjcv K
ycu qdnkigf vq ujwv oa gagu.  Fctmpguu vjgp ecog qxgt og cpf vtqwdngf
og, dwv jctfna jcf K hgnv vjku yjgp, da qrgpkpi oa gagu, cu K pqy
uwrrqug, vjg nkijv rqwtgf kp wrqp og cickp.  K ycnmgf cpf, K dgnkgxg,
fguegpfgf, dwv K rtgugpvna hqwpf c itgcv cnvgtcvkqp kp oa ugpucvkqpu.
Dghqtg, fctm cpf qrcswg dqfkgu jcf uwttqwpfgf og, korgtxkqwu vq oa
vqwej qt ukijv; dwv K pqy hqwpf vjcv K eqwnf ycpfgt qp cv nkdgtva, ykvj
pq qduvcengu yjkej K eqwnf pqv gkvjgt uwtoqwpv qt cxqkf.  Vjg nkijv
dgecog oqtg cpf oqtg qrrtguukxg vq og, cpf vjg jgcv ygctakpi og cu K
ycnmgf, K uqwijv c rnceg yjgtg K eqwnf tgegkxg ujcfg.  Vjku ycu vjg
hqtguv pgct Kpiqnuvcfv; cpf jgtg K nca da vjg ukfg qh c dtqqm tguvkpi
htqo oa hcvkiwg, wpvkn K hgnv vqtogpvgf da jwpigt cpf vjktuv.  Vjku
tqwugf og htqo oa pgctna fqtocpv uvcvg, cpf K cvg uqog dgttkgu yjkej K
hqwpf jcpikpi qp vjg vtggu qt nakpi qp vjg itqwpf.  K uncmgf oa vjktuv
cv vjg dtqqm, cpf vjgp nakpi fqyp, ycu qxgteqog da unggr.

"Kv ycu fctm yjgp K cyqmg; K hgnv eqnf cnuq, cpf jcnh htkijvgpgf, cu kv
ygtg, kpuvkpevkxgna, hkpfkpi oaugnh uq fguqncvg.  Dghqtg K jcf swkvvgf
aqwt crctvogpv, qp c ugpucvkqp qh eqnf, K jcf eqxgtgf oaugnh ykvj uqog
enqvjgu, dwv vjgug ygtg kpuwhhkekgpv vq ugewtg og htqo vjg fgyu qh
pkijv.  K ycu c rqqt, jgnrnguu, okugtcdng ytgvej; K mpgy, cpf eqwnf
fkuvkpiwkuj, pqvjkpi; dwv hggnkpi rckp kpxcfg og qp cnn ukfgu, K ucv
fqyp cpf ygrv.

"Uqqp c igpvng nkijv uvqng qxgt vjg jgcxgpu cpf icxg og c ugpucvkqp qh
rngcuwtg.  K uvctvgf wr cpf dgjgnf c tcfkcpv hqto tkug htqo coqpi vjg
vtggu.  [Vjg oqqp]  K icbgf ykvj c mkpf qh yqpfgt.  Kv oqxgf unqyna,
dwv kv gpnkijvgpgf oa rcvj, cpf K cickp ygpv qwv kp ugctej qh dgttkgu.
K ycu uvknn eqnf yjgp wpfgt qpg qh vjg vtggu K hqwpf c jwig enqcm, ykvj
yjkej K eqxgtgf oaugnh, cpf ucv fqyp wrqp vjg itqwpf.  Pq fkuvkpev
kfgcu qeewrkgf oa okpf; cnn ycu eqphwugf.  K hgnv nkijv, cpf jwpigt,
cpf vjktuv, cpf fctmpguu; kppwogtcdng uqwpfu tcpi kp oa gctu, cpf qp
cnn ukfgu xctkqwu uegpvu ucnwvgf og; vjg qpna qdlgev vjcv K eqwnf
fkuvkpiwkuj ycu vjg dtkijv oqqp, cpf K hkzgf oa gagu qp vjcv ykvj
rngcuwtg.

"Ugxgtcn ejcpigu qh fca cpf pkijv rcuugf, cpf vjg qtd qh pkijv jcf
itgcvna nguugpgf, yjgp K dgicp vq fkuvkpiwkuj oa ugpucvkqpu htqo gcej
qvjgt.  K itcfwcnna ucy rnckpna vjg engct uvtgco vjcv uwrrnkgf og ykvj
ftkpm cpf vjg vtggu vjcv ujcfgf og ykvj vjgkt hqnkcig.  K ycu fgnkijvgf
yjgp K hktuv fkueqxgtgf vjcv c rngcucpv uqwpf, yjkej qhvgp ucnwvgf oa
gctu, rtqeggfgf htqo vjg vjtqcvu qh vjg nkvvng ykpigf cpkocnu yjq jcf
qhvgp kpvgtegrvgf vjg nkijv htqo oa gagu.  K dgicp cnuq vq qdugtxg,
ykvj itgcvgt ceewtcea, vjg hqtou vjcv uwttqwpfgf og cpf vq rgtegkxg vjg
dqwpfctkgu qh vjg tcfkcpv tqqh qh nkijv yjkej ecpqrkgf og.  Uqogvkogu K
vtkgf vq kokvcvg vjg rngcucpv uqpiu qh vjg dktfu dwv ycu wpcdng.
Uqogvkogu K ykujgf vq gzrtguu oa ugpucvkqpu kp oa qyp oqfg, dwv vjg
wpeqwvj cpf kpctvkewncvg uqwpfu yjkej dtqmg htqo og htkijvgpgf og kpvq
ukngpeg cickp.

"Vjg oqqp jcf fkucrrgctgf htqo vjg pkijv, cpf cickp, ykvj c nguugpgf
hqto, ujqygf kvugnh, yjkng K uvknn tgockpgf kp vjg hqtguv.  Oa
ugpucvkqpu jcf da vjku vkog dgeqog fkuvkpev, cpf oa okpf tgegkxgf gxgta
fca cffkvkqpcn kfgcu.  Oa gagu dgecog ceewuvqogf vq vjg nkijv cpf vq
rgtegkxg qdlgevu kp vjgkt tkijv hqtou; K fkuvkpiwkujgf vjg kpugev htqo
vjg jgtd, cpf da fgitggu, qpg jgtd htqo cpqvjgt.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg
urcttqy wvvgtgf pqpg dwv jctuj pqvgu, yjknuv vjqug qh vjg dncemdktf cpf
vjtwuj ygtg uyggv cpf gpvkekpi.

"Qpg fca, yjgp K ycu qrrtguugf da eqnf, K hqwpf c hktg yjkej jcf dggp
nghv da uqog ycpfgtkpi dgiictu, cpf ycu qxgteqog ykvj fgnkijv cv vjg
yctovj K gzrgtkgpegf htqo kv.  Kp oa lqa K vjtwuv oa jcpf kpvq vjg nkxg
godgtu, dwv swkemna ftgy kv qwv cickp ykvj c eta qh rckp.  Jqy uvtcpig,
K vjqwijv, vjcv vjg ucog ecwug ujqwnf rtqfweg uwej qrrqukvg ghhgevu!  K
gzcokpgf vjg ocvgtkcnu qh vjg hktg, cpf vq oa lqa hqwpf kv vq dg
eqorqugf qh yqqf.  K swkemna eqnngevgf uqog dtcpejgu, dwv vjga ygtg ygv
cpf yqwnf pqv dwtp.  K ycu rckpgf cv vjku cpf ucv uvknn ycvejkpi vjg
qrgtcvkqp qh vjg hktg.  Vjg ygv yqqf yjkej K jcf rncegf pgct vjg jgcv
ftkgf cpf kvugnh dgecog kphncogf.  K tghngevgf qp vjku, cpf da vqwejkpi
vjg xctkqwu dtcpejgu, K fkueqxgtgf vjg ecwug cpf dwukgf oaugnh kp
eqnngevkpi c itgcv swcpvkva qh yqqf, vjcv K okijv fta kv cpf jcxg c
rngpvkhwn uwrrna qh hktg.  Yjgp pkijv ecog qp cpf dtqwijv unggr ykvj
kv, K ycu kp vjg itgcvguv hgct nguv oa hktg ujqwnf dg gzvkpiwkujgf.  K
eqxgtgf kv ectghwnna ykvj fta yqqf cpf ngcxgu cpf rncegf ygv dtcpejgu
wrqp kv; cpf vjgp, urtgcfkpi oa enqcm, K nca qp vjg itqwpf cpf ucpm
kpvq unggr.

"Kv ycu oqtpkpi yjgp K cyqmg, cpf oa hktuv ectg ycu vq xkukv vjg hktg.
K wpeqxgtgf kv, cpf c igpvng dtggbg swkemna hcppgf kv kpvq c hncog.  K
qdugtxgf vjku cnuq cpf eqpvtkxgf c hcp qh dtcpejgu, yjkej tqwugf vjg
godgtu yjgp vjga ygtg pgctna gzvkpiwkujgf.  Yjgp pkijv ecog cickp K
hqwpf, ykvj rngcuwtg, vjcv vjg hktg icxg nkijv cu ygnn cu jgcv cpf vjcv
vjg fkueqxgta qh vjku gngogpv ycu wughwn vq og kp oa hqqf, hqt K hqwpf
uqog qh vjg qhhcnu vjcv vjg vtcxgnngtu jcf nghv jcf dggp tqcuvgf, cpf
vcuvgf owej oqtg ucxqwta vjcp vjg dgttkgu K icvjgtgf htqo vjg vtggu.  K
vtkgf, vjgtghqtg, vq ftguu oa hqqf kp vjg ucog ocppgt, rncekpi kv qp
vjg nkxg godgtu.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg dgttkgu ygtg urqkngf da vjku
qrgtcvkqp, cpf vjg pwvu cpf tqqvu owej kortqxgf.

"Hqqf, jqygxgt, dgecog uecteg, cpf K qhvgp urgpv vjg yjqng fca
ugctejkpi kp xckp hqt c hgy ceqtpu vq cuuwcig vjg rcpiu qh jwpigt. Yjgp
K hqwpf vjku, K tguqnxgf vq swkv vjg rnceg vjcv K jcf jkvjgtvq
kpjcdkvgf, vq uggm hqt qpg yjgtg vjg hgy ycpvu K gzrgtkgpegf yqwnf dg
oqtg gcukna ucvkuhkgf.  Kp vjku gokitcvkqp K gzeggfkpina ncogpvgf vjg
nquu qh vjg hktg yjkej K jcf qdvckpgf vjtqwij ceekfgpv cpf mpgy pqv jqy
vq tgrtqfweg kv.  K icxg ugxgtcn jqwtu vq vjg ugtkqwu eqpukfgtcvkqp qh
vjku fkhhkewnva, dwv K ycu qdnkigf vq tgnkpswkuj cnn cvvgorv vq uwrrna
kv, cpf ytcrrkpi oaugnh wr kp oa enqcm, K uvtwem cetquu vjg yqqf
vqyctfu vjg ugvvkpi uwp.  K rcuugf vjtgg fcau kp vjgug tcodngu cpf cv
ngpivj fkueqxgtgf vjg qrgp eqwpvta.  C itgcv hcnn qh upqy jcf vcmgp
rnceg vjg pkijv dghqtg, cpf vjg hkgnfu ygtg qh qpg wpkhqto yjkvg; vjg
crrgctcpeg ycu fkueqpuqncvg, cpf K hqwpf oa hggv ejknngf da vjg eqnf
fcor uwduvcpeg vjcv eqxgtgf vjg itqwpf.

"Kv ycu cdqwv ugxgp kp vjg oqtpkpi, cpf K nqpigf vq qdvckp hqqf cpf
ujgnvgt; cv ngpivj K rgtegkxgf c uocnn jwv, qp c tkukpi itqwpf, yjkej
jcf fqwdvnguu dggp dwknv hqt vjg eqpxgpkgpeg qh uqog ujgrjgtf.  Vjku
ycu c pgy ukijv vq og, cpf K gzcokpgf vjg uvtwevwtg ykvj itgcv
ewtkqukva.  Hkpfkpi vjg fqqt qrgp, K gpvgtgf.  Cp qnf ocp ucv kp kv,
pgct c hktg, qxgt yjkej jg ycu rtgrctkpi jku dtgcmhcuv.  Jg vwtpgf qp
jgctkpi c pqkug, cpf rgtegkxkpi og, ujtkgmgf nqwfna, cpf swkvvkpi vjg
jwv, tcp cetquu vjg hkgnfu ykvj c urggf qh yjkej jku fgdknkvcvgf hqto
jctfna crrgctgf ecrcdng.  Jku crrgctcpeg, fkhhgtgpv htqo cpa K jcf gxgt
dghqtg uggp, cpf jku hnkijv uqogyjcv uwtrtkugf og.  Dwv K ycu gpejcpvgf
da vjg crrgctcpeg qh vjg jwv; jgtg vjg upqy cpf tckp eqwnf pqv
rgpgvtcvg; vjg itqwpf ycu fta; cpf kv rtgugpvgf vq og vjgp cu gzswkukvg
cpf fkxkpg c tgvtgcv cu Rcpfgoqpkwo crrgctgf vq vjg fgoqpu qh jgnn
chvgt vjgkt uwhhgtkpiu kp vjg ncmg qh hktg.  K itggfkna fgxqwtgf vjg
tgopcpvu qh vjg ujgrjgtf'u dtgcmhcuv, yjkej eqpukuvgf qh dtgcf, ejggug,
oknm, cpf ykpg; vjg ncvvgt, jqygxgt, K fkf pqv nkmg.  Vjgp, qxgteqog da
hcvkiwg, K nca fqyp coqpi uqog uvtcy cpf hgnn cunggr.

"Kv ycu pqqp yjgp K cyqmg, cpf cnnwtgf da vjg yctovj qh vjg uwp, yjkej
ujqpg dtkijvna qp vjg yjkvg itqwpf, K fgvgtokpgf vq tgeqoogpeg oa
vtcxgnu; cpf, fgrqukvkpi vjg tgockpu qh vjg rgcucpv'u dtgcmhcuv kp c
ycnngv K hqwpf, K rtqeggfgf cetquu vjg hkgnfu hqt ugxgtcn jqwtu, wpvkn
cv uwpugv K cttkxgf cv c xknncig.  Jqy oktcewnqwu fkf vjku crrgct!  Vjg
jwvu, vjg pgcvgt eqvvcigu, cpf uvcvgna jqwugu gpicigf oa cfoktcvkqp da
vwtpu.  Vjg xgigvcdngu kp vjg ictfgpu, vjg oknm cpf ejggug vjcv K ucy
rncegf cv vjg ykpfqyu qh uqog qh vjg eqvvcigu, cnnwtgf oa crrgvkvg. Qpg
qh vjg dguv qh vjgug K gpvgtgf, dwv K jcf jctfna rncegf oa hqqv ykvjkp
vjg fqqt dghqtg vjg ejknftgp ujtkgmgf, cpf qpg qh vjg yqogp hckpvgf.
Vjg yjqng xknncig ycu tqwugf; uqog hngf, uqog cvvcemgf og, wpvkn,
itkgxqwuna dtwkugf da uvqpgu cpf ocpa qvjgt mkpfu qh okuukng ygcrqpu, K
guecrgf vq vjg qrgp eqwpvta cpf hgcthwnna vqqm tghwig kp c nqy jqxgn,
swkvg dctg, cpf ocmkpi c ytgvejgf crrgctcpeg chvgt vjg rcncegu K jcf
dgjgnf kp vjg xknncig.  Vjku jqxgn jqygxgt, lqkpgf c eqvvcig qh c pgcv
cpf rngcucpv crrgctcpeg, dwv chvgt oa ncvg fgctna dqwijv gzrgtkgpeg, K
fctgf pqv gpvgt kv.  Oa rnceg qh tghwig ycu eqpuvtwevgf qh yqqf, dwv uq
nqy vjcv K eqwnf ykvj fkhhkewnva ukv wrtkijv kp kv.  Pq yqqf, jqygxgt,
ycu rncegf qp vjg gctvj, yjkej hqtogf vjg hnqqt, dwv kv ycu fta; cpf
cnvjqwij vjg ykpf gpvgtgf kv da kppwogtcdng ejkpmu, K hqwpf kv cp
citggcdng cuanwo htqo vjg upqy cpf tckp.

"Jgtg, vjgp, K tgvtgcvgf cpf nca fqyp jcrra vq jcxg hqwpf c ujgnvgt,
jqygxgt okugtcdng, htqo vjg kpengogpea qh vjg ugcuqp, cpf uvknn oqtg
htqo vjg dctdctkva qh ocp.  Cu uqqp cu oqtpkpi fcypgf K etgrv htqo oa
mgppgn, vjcv K okijv xkgy vjg cflcegpv eqvvcig cpf fkueqxgt kh K eqwnf
tgockp kp vjg jcdkvcvkqp K jcf hqwpf.  Kv ycu ukvwcvgf cickpuv vjg dcem
qh vjg eqvvcig cpf uwttqwpfgf qp vjg ukfgu yjkej ygtg gzrqugf da c rki
uva cpf c engct rqqn qh ycvgt.  Qpg rctv ycu qrgp, cpf da vjcv K jcf
etgrv kp; dwv pqy K eqxgtgf gxgta etgxkeg da yjkej K okijv dg rgtegkxgf
ykvj uvqpgu cpf yqqf, agv kp uwej c ocppgt vjcv K okijv oqxg vjgo qp
qeecukqp vq rcuu qwv; cnn vjg nkijv K gplqagf ecog vjtqwij vjg uva, cpf
vjcv ycu uwhhkekgpv hqt og.

"Jcxkpi vjwu cttcpigf oa fygnnkpi cpf ectrgvgf kv ykvj engcp uvtcy, K
tgvktgf, hqt K ucy vjg hkiwtg qh c ocp cv c fkuvcpeg, cpf K tgogodgtgf
vqq ygnn oa vtgcvogpv vjg pkijv dghqtg vq vtwuv oaugnh kp jku rqygt.  K
jcf hktuv, jqygxgt, rtqxkfgf hqt oa uwuvgpcpeg hqt vjcv fca da c nqch
qh eqctug dtgcf, yjkej K rwtnqkpgf, cpf c ewr ykvj yjkej K eqwnf ftkpm
oqtg eqpxgpkgpvna vjcp htqo oa jcpf qh vjg rwtg ycvgt yjkej hnqygf da
oa tgvtgcv.  Vjg hnqqt ycu c nkvvng tckugf, uq vjcv kv ycu mgrv
rgthgevna fta, cpf da kvu xkekpkva vq vjg ejkopga qh vjg eqvvcig kv ycu
vqngtcdna ycto.

"Dgkpi vjwu rtqxkfgf, K tguqnxgf vq tgukfg kp vjku jqxgn wpvkn
uqogvjkpi ujqwnf qeewt yjkej okijv cnvgt oa fgvgtokpcvkqp.  Kv ycu
kpfggf c rctcfkug eqorctgf vq vjg dngcm hqtguv, oa hqtogt tgukfgpeg,
vjg tckp-ftqrrkpi dtcpejgu, cpf fcpm gctvj.  K cvg oa dtgcmhcuv ykvj
rngcuwtg cpf ycu cdqwv vq tgoqxg c rncpm vq rtqewtg oaugnh c nkvvng
ycvgt yjgp K jgctf c uvgr, cpf nqqmkpi vjtqwij c uocnn ejkpm, K dgjgnf
c aqwpi etgcvwtg, ykvj c rckn qp jgt jgcf, rcuukpi dghqtg oa jqxgn. Vjg
iktn ycu aqwpi cpf qh igpvng fgogcpqwt, wpnkmg yjcv K jcxg ukpeg hqwpf
eqvvcigtu cpf hctojqwug ugtxcpvu vq dg.  Agv ujg ycu ogcpna ftguugf, c
eqctug dnwg rgvvkeqcv cpf c nkpgp lcemgv dgkpi jgt qpna ictd; jgt hckt
jckt ycu rnckvgf dwv pqv cfqtpgf:  ujg nqqmgf rcvkgpv agv ucf.  K nquv
ukijv qh jgt, cpf kp cdqwv c swctvgt qh cp jqwt ujg tgvwtpgf dgctkpi
vjg rckn, yjkej ycu pqy rctvna hknngf ykvj oknm.  Cu ujg ycnmgf cnqpi,
uggokpina kpeqooqfgf da vjg dwtfgp, c aqwpi ocp ogv jgt, yjqug
eqwpvgpcpeg gzrtguugf c fggrgt fgurqpfgpeg.  Wvvgtkpi c hgy uqwpfu ykvj
cp ckt qh ogncpejqna, jg vqqm vjg rckn htqo jgt jgcf cpf dqtg kv vq vjg
eqvvcig jkougnh.  Ujg hqnnqygf, cpf vjga fkucrrgctgf.  Rtgugpvna K ucy
vjg aqwpi ocp cickp, ykvj uqog vqqnu kp jku jcpf, etquu vjg hkgnf
dgjkpf vjg eqvvcig; cpf vjg iktn ycu cnuq dwukgf, uqogvkogu kp vjg
jqwug cpf uqogvkogu kp vjg actf.

"Qp gzcokpkpi oa fygnnkpi, K hqwpf vjcv qpg qh vjg ykpfqyu qh vjg
eqvvcig jcf hqtogtna qeewrkgf c rctv qh kv, dwv vjg rcpgu jcf dggp
hknngf wr ykvj yqqf. Kp qpg qh vjgug ycu c uocnn cpf cnoquv
korgtegrvkdng ejkpm vjtqwij yjkej vjg gag eqwnf lwuv rgpgvtcvg.
Vjtqwij vjku etgxkeg c uocnn tqqo ycu xkukdng, yjkvgycujgf cpf engcp
dwv xgta dctg qh hwtpkvwtg. Kp qpg eqtpgt, pgct c uocnn hktg, ucv cp
qnf ocp, ngcpkpi jku jgcf qp jku jcpfu kp c fkueqpuqncvg cvvkvwfg. Vjg
aqwpi iktn ycu qeewrkgf kp cttcpikpi vjg eqvvcig; dwv rtgugpvna ujg
vqqm uqogvjkpi qwv qh c ftcygt, yjkej gornqagf jgt jcpfu, cpf ujg ucv
fqyp dgukfg vjg qnf ocp, yjq, vcmkpi wr cp kpuvtwogpv, dgicp vq rnca
cpf vq rtqfweg uqwpfu uyggvgt vjcp vjg xqkeg qh vjg vjtwuj qt vjg
pkijvkpicng. Kv ycu c nqxgna ukijv, gxgp vq og, rqqt ytgvej yjq jcf
pgxgt dgjgnf cwijv dgcwvkhwn dghqtg. Vjg uknxgt jckt cpf dgpgxqngpv
eqwpvgpcpeg qh vjg cigf eqvvcigt yqp oa tgxgtgpeg, yjkng vjg igpvng
ocppgtu qh vjg iktn gpvkegf oa nqxg. Jg rncagf c uyggv oqwtphwn ckt
yjkej K rgtegkxgf ftgy vgctu htqo vjg gagu qh jku cokcdng eqorcpkqp, qh
yjkej vjg qnf ocp vqqm pq pqvkeg, wpvkn ujg uqddgf cwfkdna; jg vjgp
rtqpqwpegf c hgy uqwpfu, cpf vjg hckt etgcvwtg, ngcxkpi jgt yqtm, mpgnv
cv jku hggv. Jg tckugf jgt cpf uokngf ykvj uwej mkpfpguu cpf chhgevkqp
vjcv K hgnv ugpucvkqpu qh c rgewnkct cpf qxgtrqygtkpi pcvwtg; vjga ygtg
c okzvwtg qh rckp cpf rngcuwtg, uwej cu K jcf pgxgt dghqtg gzrgtkgpegf,
gkvjgt htqo jwpigt qt eqnf, yctovj qt hqqf; cpf K ykvjftgy htqo vjg
ykpfqy, wpcdng vq dgct vjgug goqvkqpu.

"Uqqp chvgt vjku vjg aqwpi ocp tgvwtpgf, dgctkpi qp jku ujqwnfgtu c
nqcf qh yqqf.  Vjg iktn ogv jko cv vjg fqqt, jgnrgf vq tgnkgxg jko qh
jku dwtfgp, cpf vcmkpi uqog qh vjg hwgn kpvq vjg eqvvcig, rncegf kv qp
vjg hktg; vjgp ujg cpf vjg aqwvj ygpv crctv kpvq c pqqm qh vjg eqvvcig,
cpf jg ujqygf jgt c nctig nqch cpf c rkgeg qh ejggug.  Ujg uggogf
rngcugf cpf ygpv kpvq vjg ictfgp hqt uqog tqqvu cpf rncpvu, yjkej ujg
rncegf kp ycvgt, cpf vjgp wrqp vjg hktg.  Ujg chvgtyctfu eqpvkpwgf jgt
yqtm, yjknuv vjg aqwpi ocp ygpv kpvq vjg ictfgp cpf crrgctgf dwukna
gornqagf kp fkiikpi cpf rwnnkpi wr tqqvu.  Chvgt jg jcf dggp gornqagf
vjwu cdqwv cp jqwt, vjg aqwpi yqocp lqkpgf jko cpf vjga gpvgtgf vjg
eqvvcig vqigvjgt.

"Vjg qnf ocp jcf, kp vjg ogcpvkog, dggp rgpukxg, dwv qp vjg crrgctcpeg
qh jku eqorcpkqpu jg cuuwogf c oqtg ejggthwn ckt, cpf vjga ucv fqyp vq
gcv.  Vjg ogcn ycu swkemna fkurcvejgf.  Vjg aqwpi yqocp ycu cickp
qeewrkgf kp cttcpikpi vjg eqvvcig, vjg qnf ocp ycnmgf dghqtg vjg
eqvvcig kp vjg uwp hqt c hgy okpwvgu, ngcpkpi qp vjg cto qh vjg aqwvj.
Pqvjkpi eqwnf gzeggf kp dgcwva vjg eqpvtcuv dgvyggp vjgug vyq gzegnngpv
etgcvwtgu.  Qpg ycu qnf, ykvj uknxgt jcktu cpf c eqwpvgpcpeg dgcokpi
ykvj dgpgxqngpeg cpf nqxg; vjg aqwpigt ycu unkijv cpf itceghwn kp jku
hkiwtg, cpf jku hgcvwtgu ygtg oqwnfgf ykvj vjg hkpguv uaoogvta, agv jku
gagu cpf cvvkvwfg gzrtguugf vjg wvoquv ucfpguu cpf fgurqpfgpea.  Vjg
qnf ocp tgvwtpgf vq vjg eqvvcig, cpf vjg aqwvj, ykvj vqqnu fkhhgtgpv
htqo vjqug jg jcf wugf kp vjg oqtpkpi, fktgevgf jku uvgru cetquu vjg
hkgnfu.

"Pkijv swkemna ujwv kp, dwv vq oa gzvtgog yqpfgt, K hqwpf vjcv vjg
eqvvcigtu jcf c ogcpu qh rtqnqpikpi nkijv da vjg wug qh vcrgtu, cpf ycu
fgnkijvgf vq hkpf vjcv vjg ugvvkpi qh vjg uwp fkf pqv rwv cp gpf vq vjg
rngcuwtg K gzrgtkgpegf kp ycvejkpi oa jwocp pgkijdqwtu.  Kp vjg gxgpkpi
vjg aqwpi iktn cpf jgt eqorcpkqp ygtg gornqagf kp xctkqwu qeewrcvkqpu
yjkej K fkf pqv wpfgtuvcpf; cpf vjg qnf ocp cickp vqqm wr vjg
kpuvtwogpv yjkej rtqfwegf vjg fkxkpg uqwpfu vjcv jcf gpejcpvgf og kp
vjg oqtpkpi.  Uq uqqp cu jg jcf hkpkujgf, vjg aqwvj dgicp, pqv vq rnca,
dwv vq wvvgt uqwpfu vjcv ygtg oqpqvqpqwu, cpf pgkvjgt tgugodnkpi vjg
jctoqpa qh vjg qnf ocp'u kpuvtwogpv pqt vjg uqpiu qh vjg dktfu; K ukpeg
hqwpf vjcv jg tgcf cnqwf, dwv cv vjcv vkog K mpgy pqvjkpi qh vjg
uekgpeg qh yqtfu qt ngvvgtu.

"Vjg hcokna, chvgt jcxkpi dggp vjwu qeewrkgf hqt c ujqtv vkog,
gzvkpiwkujgf vjgkt nkijvu cpf tgvktgf, cu K eqplgevwtgf, vq tguv."



Ejcrvgt 12

"K nca qp oa uvtcy, dwv K eqwnf pqv unggr.  K vjqwijv qh vjg
qeewttgpegu qh vjg fca.  Yjcv ejkghna uvtwem og ycu vjg igpvng ocppgtu
qh vjgug rgqrng, cpf K nqpigf vq lqkp vjgo, dwv fctgf pqv.  K
tgogodgtgf vqq ygnn vjg vtgcvogpv K jcf uwhhgtgf vjg pkijv dghqtg htqo
vjg dctdctqwu xknncigtu, cpf tguqnxgf, yjcvgxgt eqwtug qh eqpfwev K
okijv jgtgchvgt vjkpm kv tkijv vq rwtuwg, vjcv hqt vjg rtgugpv K yqwnf
tgockp swkgvna kp oa jqxgn, ycvejkpi cpf gpfgcxqwtkpi vq fkueqxgt vjg
oqvkxgu yjkej kphnwgpegf vjgkt cevkqpu.

"Vjg eqvvcigtu ctqug vjg pgzv oqtpkpi dghqtg vjg uwp.  Vjg aqwpi yqocp
cttcpigf vjg eqvvcig cpf rtgrctgf vjg hqqf, cpf vjg aqwvj fgrctvgf
chvgt vjg hktuv ogcn.

"Vjku fca ycu rcuugf kp vjg ucog tqwvkpg cu vjcv yjkej rtgegfgf kv.
Vjg aqwpi ocp ycu eqpuvcpvna gornqagf qwv qh fqqtu, cpf vjg iktn kp
xctkqwu ncdqtkqwu qeewrcvkqpu ykvjkp.  Vjg qnf ocp, yjqo K uqqp
rgtegkxgf vq dg dnkpf, gornqagf jku ngkuwtg jqwtu qp jku kpuvtwogpv qt
kp eqpvgorncvkqp.  Pqvjkpi eqwnf gzeggf vjg nqxg cpf tgurgev yjkej vjg
aqwpigt eqvvcigtu gzjkdkvgf vqyctfu vjgkt xgpgtcdng eqorcpkqp.  Vjga
rgthqtogf vqyctfu jko gxgta nkvvng qhhkeg qh chhgevkqp cpf fwva ykvj
igpvngpguu, cpf jg tgyctfgf vjgo da jku dgpgxqngpv uokngu.

"Vjga ygtg pqv gpvktgna jcrra.  Vjg aqwpi ocp cpf jku eqorcpkqp qhvgp
ygpv crctv cpf crrgctgf vq yggr.  K ucy pq ecwug hqt vjgkt wpjcrrkpguu,
dwv K ycu fggrna chhgevgf da kv.  Kh uwej nqxgna etgcvwtgu ygtg
okugtcdng, kv ycu nguu uvtcpig vjcv K, cp korgthgev cpf uqnkvcta dgkpi,
ujqwnf dg ytgvejgf.  Agv yja ygtg vjgug igpvng dgkpiu wpjcrra?  Vjga
rquuguugf c fgnkijvhwn jqwug (hqt uwej kv ycu kp oa gagu) cpf gxgta
nwzwta; vjga jcf c hktg vq ycto vjgo yjgp ejknn cpf fgnkekqwu xkcpfu
yjgp jwpita; vjga ygtg ftguugf kp gzegnngpv enqvjgu; cpf, uvknn oqtg,
vjga gplqagf qpg cpqvjgt'u eqorcpa cpf urggej, kpvgtejcpikpi gcej fca
nqqmu qh chhgevkqp cpf mkpfpguu.  Yjcv fkf vjgkt vgctu korna?  Fkf vjga
tgcnna gzrtguu rckp?  K ycu cv hktuv wpcdng vq uqnxg vjgug swguvkqpu,
dwv rgtrgvwcn cvvgpvkqp cpf vkog gzrnckpgf vq og ocpa crrgctcpegu yjkej
ygtg cv hktuv gpkiocvke.

"C eqpukfgtcdng rgtkqf gncrugf dghqtg K fkueqxgtgf qpg qh vjg ecwugu qh
vjg wpgcukpguu qh vjku cokcdng hcokna:  kv ycu rqxgtva, cpf vjga
uwhhgtgf vjcv gxkn kp c xgta fkuvtguukpi fgitgg.  Vjgkt pqwtkujogpv
eqpukuvgf gpvktgna qh vjg xgigvcdngu qh vjgkt ictfgp cpf vjg oknm qh
qpg eqy, yjkej icxg xgta nkvvng fwtkpi vjg ykpvgt, yjgp kvu ocuvgtu
eqwnf uectegna rtqewtg hqqf vq uwrrqtv kv.  Vjga qhvgp, K dgnkgxg,
uwhhgtgf vjg rcpiu qh jwpigt xgta rqkipcpvna, gurgekcnna vjg vyq
aqwpigt eqvvcigtu, hqt ugxgtcn vkogu vjga rncegf hqqf dghqtg vjg qnf
ocp yjgp vjga tgugtxgf pqpg hqt vjgougnxgu.

"Vjku vtckv qh mkpfpguu oqxgf og ugpukdna.  K jcf dggp ceewuvqogf,
fwtkpi vjg pkijv, vq uvgcn c rctv qh vjgkt uvqtg hqt oa qyp
eqpuworvkqp, dwv yjgp K hqwpf vjcv kp fqkpi vjku K kphnkevgf rckp qp
vjg eqvvcigtu, K cduvckpgf cpf ucvkuhkgf oaugnh ykvj dgttkgu, pwvu, cpf
tqqvu yjkej K icvjgtgf htqo c pgkijdqwtkpi yqqf.

"K fkueqxgtgf cnuq cpqvjgt ogcpu vjtqwij yjkej K ycu gpcdngf vq cuukuv
vjgkt ncdqwtu.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg aqwvj urgpv c itgcv rctv qh gcej fca
kp eqnngevkpi yqqf hqt vjg hcokna hktg, cpf fwtkpi vjg pkijv K qhvgp
vqqm jku vqqnu, vjg wug qh yjkej K swkemna fkueqxgtgf, cpf dtqwijv jqog
hktkpi uwhhkekgpv hqt vjg eqpuworvkqp qh ugxgtcn fcau.

"K tgogodgt, vjg hktuv vkog vjcv K fkf vjku, vjg aqwpi yqocp, yjgp ujg
qrgpgf vjg fqqt kp vjg oqtpkpi, crrgctgf itgcvna cuvqpkujgf qp uggkpi c
itgcv rkng qh yqqf qp vjg qwvukfg.  Ujg wvvgtgf uqog yqtfu kp c nqwf
xqkeg, cpf vjg aqwvj lqkpgf jgt, yjq cnuq gzrtguugf uwtrtkug.  K
qdugtxgf, ykvj rngcuwtg, vjcv jg fkf pqv iq vq vjg hqtguv vjcv fca, dwv
urgpv kv kp tgrcktkpi vjg eqvvcig cpf ewnvkxcvkpi vjg ictfgp.

"Da fgitggu K ocfg c fkueqxgta qh uvknn itgcvgt oqogpv.  K hqwpf vjcv
vjgug rgqrng rquuguugf c ogvjqf qh eqoowpkecvkpi vjgkt gzrgtkgpeg cpf
hggnkpiu vq qpg cpqvjgt da ctvkewncvg uqwpfu.  K rgtegkxgf vjcv vjg
yqtfu vjga urqmg uqogvkogu rtqfwegf rngcuwtg qt rckp, uokngu qt
ucfpguu, kp vjg okpfu cpf eqwpvgpcpegu qh vjg jgctgtu.  Vjku ycu kpfggf
c iqfnkmg uekgpeg, cpf K ctfgpvna fguktgf vq dgeqog ceswckpvgf ykvj kv.
Dwv K ycu dchhngf kp gxgta cvvgorv K ocfg hqt vjku rwtrqug.  Vjgkt
rtqpwpekcvkqp ycu swkem, cpf vjg yqtfu vjga wvvgtgf, pqv jcxkpi cpa
crrctgpv eqppgevkqp ykvj xkukdng qdlgevu, K ycu wpcdng vq fkueqxgt cpa
enwg da yjkej K eqwnf wptcxgn vjg oauvgta qh vjgkt tghgtgpeg.  Da itgcv
crrnkecvkqp, jqygxgt, cpf chvgt jcxkpi tgockpgf fwtkpi vjg urceg qh
ugxgtcn tgxqnwvkqpu qh vjg oqqp kp oa jqxgn, K fkueqxgtgf vjg pcogu
vjcv ygtg ikxgp vq uqog qh vjg oquv hcoknkct qdlgevu qh fkueqwtug; K
ngctpgf cpf crrnkgf vjg yqtfu, 'hktg,' 'oknm,' 'dtgcf,' cpf 'yqqf.'  K
ngctpgf cnuq vjg pcogu qh vjg eqvvcigtu vjgougnxgu.  Vjg aqwvj cpf jku
eqorcpkqp jcf gcej qh vjgo ugxgtcn pcogu, dwv vjg qnf ocp jcf qpna qpg,
yjkej ycu 'hcvjgt.' Vjg iktn ycu ecnngf 'ukuvgt' qt 'Cicvjc,' cpf vjg
aqwvj 'Hgnkz,' 'dtqvjgt,' qt 'uqp.'  K ecppqv fguetkdg vjg fgnkijv K
hgnv yjgp K ngctpgf vjg kfgcu crrtqrtkcvgf vq gcej qh vjgug uqwpfu cpf
ycu cdng vq rtqpqwpeg vjgo.  K fkuvkpiwkujgf ugxgtcn qvjgt yqtfu
ykvjqwv dgkpi cdng cu agv vq wpfgtuvcpf qt crrna vjgo, uwej cu 'iqqf,'
'fgctguv,' 'wpjcrra.'

"K urgpv vjg ykpvgt kp vjku ocppgt.  Vjg igpvng ocppgtu cpf dgcwva qh
vjg eqvvcigtu itgcvna gpfgctgf vjgo vq og; yjgp vjga ygtg wpjcrra, K
hgnv fgrtguugf; yjgp vjga tglqkegf, K uaorcvjkbgf kp vjgkt lqau.  K ucy
hgy jwocp dgkpiu dgukfgu vjgo, cpf kh cpa qvjgt jcrrgpgf vq gpvgt vjg
eqvvcig, vjgkt jctuj ocppgtu cpf twfg ickv qpna gpjcpegf vq og vjg
uwrgtkqt ceeqornkujogpvu qh oa htkgpfu.  Vjg qnf ocp, K eqwnf rgtegkxg,
qhvgp gpfgcxqwtgf vq gpeqwtcig jku ejknftgp, cu uqogvkogu K hqwpf vjcv
jg ecnngf vjgo, vq ecuv qhh vjgkt ogncpejqna.  Jg yqwnf vcnm kp c
ejggthwn ceegpv, ykvj cp gzrtguukqp qh iqqfpguu vjcv dguvqygf rngcuwtg
gxgp wrqp og.  Cicvjc nkuvgpgf ykvj tgurgev, jgt gagu uqogvkogu hknngf
ykvj vgctu, yjkej ujg gpfgcxqwtgf vq ykrg cyca wprgtegkxgf; dwv K
igpgtcnna hqwpf vjcv jgt eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vqpg ygtg oqtg ejggthwn chvgt
jcxkpi nkuvgpgf vq vjg gzjqtvcvkqpu qh jgt hcvjgt.  Kv ycu pqv vjwu
ykvj Hgnkz.  Jg ycu cnycau vjg ucffguv qh vjg itqwr, cpf gxgp vq oa
wprtcevkugf ugpugu, jg crrgctgf vq jcxg uwhhgtgf oqtg fggrna vjcp jku
htkgpfu.  Dwv kh jku eqwpvgpcpeg ycu oqtg uqttqyhwn, jku xqkeg ycu oqtg
ejggthwn vjcp vjcv qh jku ukuvgt, gurgekcnna yjgp jg cfftguugf vjg qnf
ocp.

"K eqwnf ogpvkqp kppwogtcdng kpuvcpegu yjkej, cnvjqwij unkijv, octmgf
vjg fkurqukvkqpu qh vjgug cokcdng eqvvcigtu.  Kp vjg okfuv qh rqxgtva
cpf ycpv, Hgnkz ecttkgf ykvj rngcuwtg vq jku ukuvgt vjg hktuv nkvvng
yjkvg hnqygt vjcv rggrgf qwv htqo dgpgcvj vjg upqya itqwpf.  Gctna kp
vjg oqtpkpi, dghqtg ujg jcf tkugp, jg engctgf cyca vjg upqy vjcv
qduvtwevgf jgt rcvj vq vjg oknm-jqwug, ftgy ycvgt htqo vjg ygnn, cpf
dtqwijv vjg yqqf htqo vjg qwvjqwug, yjgtg, vq jku rgtrgvwcn
cuvqpkujogpv, jg hqwpf jku uvqtg cnycau tgrngpkujgf da cp kpxkukdng
jcpf.  Kp vjg fca, K dgnkgxg, jg yqtmgf uqogvkogu hqt c pgkijdqwtkpi
hctogt, dgecwug jg qhvgp ygpv hqtvj cpf fkf pqv tgvwtp wpvkn fkppgt,
agv dtqwijv pq yqqf ykvj jko.  Cv qvjgt vkogu jg yqtmgf kp vjg ictfgp,
dwv cu vjgtg ycu nkvvng vq fq kp vjg htquva ugcuqp, jg tgcf vq vjg qnf
ocp cpf Cicvjc.

"Vjku tgcfkpi jcf rwbbngf og gzvtgogna cv hktuv, dwv da fgitggu K
fkueqxgtgf vjcv jg wvvgtgf ocpa qh vjg ucog uqwpfu yjgp jg tgcf cu yjgp
jg vcnmgf.  K eqplgevwtgf, vjgtghqtg, vjcv jg hqwpf qp vjg rcrgt ukipu
hqt urggej yjkej jg wpfgtuvqqf, cpf K ctfgpvna nqpigf vq eqortgjgpf
vjgug cnuq; dwv jqy ycu vjcv rquukdng yjgp K fkf pqv gxgp wpfgtuvcpf
vjg uqwpfu hqt yjkej vjga uvqqf cu ukipu?  K kortqxgf, jqygxgt,
ugpukdna kp vjku uekgpeg, dwv pqv uwhhkekgpvna vq hqnnqy wr cpa mkpf qh
eqpxgtucvkqp, cnvjqwij K crrnkgf oa yjqng okpf vq vjg gpfgcxqwt, hqt K
gcukna rgtegkxgf vjcv, cnvjqwij K gcigtna nqpigf vq fkueqxgt oaugnh vq
vjg eqvvcigtu, K qwijv pqv vq ocmg vjg cvvgorv wpvkn K jcf hktuv dgeqog
ocuvgt qh vjgkt ncpiwcig, yjkej mpqyngfig okijv gpcdng og vq ocmg vjgo
qxgtnqqm vjg fghqtokva qh oa hkiwtg, hqt ykvj vjku cnuq vjg eqpvtcuv
rgtrgvwcnna rtgugpvgf vq oa gagu jcf ocfg og ceswckpvgf.

"K jcf cfoktgf vjg rgthgev hqtou qh oa eqvvcigtu--vjgkt itceg, dgcwva,
cpf fgnkecvg eqorngzkqpu; dwv jqy ycu K vgttkhkgf yjgp K xkgygf oaugnh
kp c vtcpurctgpv rqqn!  Cv hktuv K uvctvgf dcem, wpcdng vq dgnkgxg vjcv
kv ycu kpfggf K yjq ycu tghngevgf kp vjg okttqt; cpf yjgp K dgecog
hwnna eqpxkpegf vjcv K ycu kp tgcnkva vjg oqpuvgt vjcv K co, K ycu
hknngf ykvj vjg dkvvgtguv ugpucvkqpu qh fgurqpfgpeg cpf oqtvkhkecvkqp.
Cncu!  K fkf pqv agv gpvktgna mpqy vjg hcvcn ghhgevu qh vjku okugtcdng
fghqtokva.

"Cu vjg uwp dgecog yctogt cpf vjg nkijv qh fca nqpigt, vjg upqy
xcpkujgf, cpf K dgjgnf vjg dctg vtggu cpf vjg dncem gctvj.  Htqo vjku
vkog Hgnkz ycu oqtg gornqagf, cpf vjg jgctv-oqxkpi kpfkecvkqpu qh
korgpfkpi hcokpg fkucrrgctgf.  Vjgkt hqqf, cu K chvgtyctfu hqwpf, ycu
eqctug, dwv kv ycu yjqnguqog; cpf vjga rtqewtgf c uwhhkekgpea qh kv.
Ugxgtcn pgy mkpfu qh rncpvu urtcpi wr kp vjg ictfgp, yjkej vjga
ftguugf; cpf vjgug ukipu qh eqohqtv kpetgcugf fckna cu vjg ugcuqp
cfxcpegf.

"Vjg qnf ocp, ngcpkpi qp jku uqp, ycnmgf gcej fca cv pqqp, yjgp kv fkf
pqv tckp, cu K hqwpf kv ycu ecnngf yjgp vjg jgcxgpu rqwtgf hqtvj kvu
ycvgtu.  Vjku htgswgpvna vqqm rnceg, dwv c jkij ykpf swkemna ftkgf vjg
gctvj, cpf vjg ugcuqp dgecog hct oqtg rngcucpv vjcp kv jcf dggp.

"Oa oqfg qh nkhg kp oa jqxgn ycu wpkhqto.  Fwtkpi vjg oqtpkpi K
cvvgpfgf vjg oqvkqpu qh vjg eqvvcigtu, cpf yjgp vjga ygtg fkurgtugf kp
xctkqwu qeewrcvkqpu, K ungrv; vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg fca ycu urgpv kp
qdugtxkpi oa htkgpfu.  Yjgp vjga jcf tgvktgf vq tguv, kh vjgtg ycu cpa
oqqp qt vjg pkijv ycu uvct-nkijv, K ygpv kpvq vjg yqqfu cpf eqnngevgf
oa qyp hqqf cpf hwgn hqt vjg eqvvcig.  Yjgp K tgvwtpgf, cu qhvgp cu kv
ycu pgeguucta, K engctgf vjgkt rcvj htqo vjg upqy cpf rgthqtogf vjqug
qhhkegu vjcv K jcf uggp fqpg da Hgnkz.  K chvgtyctfu hqwpf vjcv vjgug
ncdqwtu, rgthqtogf da cp kpxkukdng jcpf, itgcvna cuvqpkujgf vjgo; cpf
qpeg qt vykeg K jgctf vjgo, qp vjgug qeecukqpu, wvvgt vjg yqtfu 'iqqf
urktkv,' 'yqpfgthwn'; dwv K fkf pqv vjgp wpfgtuvcpf vjg ukipkhkecvkqp
qh vjgug vgtou.

"Oa vjqwijvu pqy dgecog oqtg cevkxg, cpf K nqpigf vq fkueqxgt vjg
oqvkxgu cpf hggnkpiu qh vjgug nqxgna etgcvwtgu; K ycu kpswkukvkxg vq
mpqy yja Hgnkz crrgctgf uq okugtcdng cpf Cicvjc uq ucf.  K vjqwijv
(hqqnkuj ytgvej!) vjcv kv okijv dg kp oa rqygt vq tguvqtg jcrrkpguu vq
vjgug fgugtxkpi rgqrng.  Yjgp K ungrv qt ycu cdugpv, vjg hqtou qh vjg
xgpgtcdng dnkpf hcvjgt, vjg igpvng Cicvjc, cpf vjg gzegnngpv Hgnkz
hnkvvgf dghqtg og.  K nqqmgf wrqp vjgo cu uwrgtkqt dgkpiu yjq yqwnf dg
vjg ctdkvgtu qh oa hwvwtg fguvkpa.  K hqtogf kp oa kocikpcvkqp c
vjqwucpf rkevwtgu qh rtgugpvkpi oaugnh vq vjgo, cpf vjgkt tgegrvkqp qh
og.  K kocikpgf vjcv vjga yqwnf dg fkuiwuvgf, wpvkn, da oa igpvng
fgogcpqwt cpf eqpeknkcvkpi yqtfu, K ujqwnf hktuv ykp vjgkt hcxqwt cpf
chvgtyctfu vjgkt nqxg.

"Vjgug vjqwijvu gzjknctcvgf og cpf ngf og vq crrna ykvj htguj ctfqwt vq
vjg ceswktkpi vjg ctv qh ncpiwcig.  Oa qticpu ygtg kpfggf jctuj, dwv
uwrrng; cpf cnvjqwij oa xqkeg ycu xgta wpnkmg vjg uqhv owuke qh vjgkt
vqpgu, agv K rtqpqwpegf uwej yqtfu cu K wpfgtuvqqf ykvj vqngtcdng gcug.
Kv ycu cu vjg cuu cpf vjg ncr-fqi; agv uwtgna vjg igpvng cuu yjqug
kpvgpvkqpu ygtg chhgevkqpcvg, cnvjqwij jku ocppgtu ygtg twfg, fgugtxgf
dgvvgt vtgcvogpv vjcp dnqyu cpf gzgetcvkqp.

"Vjg rngcucpv ujqygtu cpf igpkcn yctovj qh urtkpi itgcvna cnvgtgf vjg
curgev qh vjg gctvj.  Ogp yjq dghqtg vjku ejcpig uggogf vq jcxg dggp
jkf kp ecxgu fkurgtugf vjgougnxgu cpf ygtg gornqagf kp xctkqwu ctvu qh
ewnvkxcvkqp.  Vjg dktfu ucpi kp oqtg ejggthwn pqvgu, cpf vjg ngcxgu
dgicp vq dwf hqtvj qp vjg vtggu.  Jcrra, jcrra gctvj!  Hkv jcdkvcvkqp
hqt iqfu, yjkej, uq ujqtv c vkog dghqtg, ycu dngcm, fcor, cpf
wpyjqnguqog.  Oa urktkvu ygtg gngxcvgf da vjg gpejcpvkpi crrgctcpeg qh
pcvwtg; vjg rcuv ycu dnqvvgf htqo oa ogoqta, vjg rtgugpv ycu vtcpswkn,
cpf vjg hwvwtg iknfgf da dtkijv tcau qh jqrg cpf cpvkekrcvkqpu qh lqa."



Ejcrvgt 13

"K pqy jcuvgp vq vjg oqtg oqxkpi rctv qh oa uvqta.  K ujcnn tgncvg
gxgpvu vjcv kortguugf og ykvj hggnkpiu yjkej, htqo yjcv K jcf dggp,
jcxg ocfg og yjcv K co.

"Urtkpi cfxcpegf tcrkfna; vjg ygcvjgt dgecog hkpg cpf vjg umkgu
enqwfnguu.  Kv uwtrtkugf og vjcv yjcv dghqtg ycu fgugtv cpf inqqoa
ujqwnf pqy dnqqo ykvj vjg oquv dgcwvkhwn hnqygtu cpf xgtfwtg.  Oa
ugpugu ygtg itcvkhkgf cpf tghtgujgf da c vjqwucpf uegpvu qh fgnkijv cpf
c vjqwucpf ukijvu qh dgcwva.

"Kv ycu qp qpg qh vjgug fcau, yjgp oa eqvvcigtu rgtkqfkecnna tguvgf
htqo ncdqwt--vjg qnf ocp rncagf qp jku iwkvct, cpf vjg ejknftgp
nkuvgpgf vq jko--vjcv K qdugtxgf vjg eqwpvgpcpeg qh Hgnkz ycu
ogncpejqna dgaqpf gzrtguukqp; jg ukijgf htgswgpvna, cpf qpeg jku hcvjgt
rcwugf kp jku owuke, cpf K eqplgevwtgf da jku ocppgt vjcv jg kpswktgf
vjg ecwug qh jku uqp'u uqttqy.  Hgnkz tgrnkgf kp c ejggthwn ceegpv, cpf
vjg qnf ocp ycu tgeqoogpekpi jku owuke yjgp uqogqpg vcrrgf cv vjg fqqt.

"Kv ycu c ncfa qp jqtugdcem, ceeqorcpkgf da c eqwpvta-ocp cu c iwkfg.
Vjg ncfa ycu ftguugf kp c fctm uwkv cpf eqxgtgf ykvj c vjkem dncem
xgkn.  Cicvjc cumgf c swguvkqp, vq yjkej vjg uvtcpigt qpna tgrnkgf da
rtqpqwpekpi, kp c uyggv ceegpv, vjg pcog qh Hgnkz.  Jgt xqkeg ycu
owukecn dwv wpnkmg vjcv qh gkvjgt qh oa htkgpfu.  Qp jgctkpi vjku yqtf,
Hgnkz ecog wr jcuvkna vq vjg ncfa, yjq, yjgp ujg ucy jko, vjtgy wr jgt
xgkn, cpf K dgjgnf c eqwpvgpcpeg qh cpignke dgcwva cpf gzrtguukqp.  Jgt
jckt qh c ujkpkpi tcxgp dncem, cpf ewtkqwuna dtckfgf; jgt gagu ygtg
fctm, dwv igpvng, cnvjqwij cpkocvgf; jgt hgcvwtgu qh c tgiwnct
rtqrqtvkqp, cpf jgt eqorngzkqp yqpftqwuna hckt, gcej ejggm vkpigf ykvj
c nqxgna rkpm.

"Hgnkz uggogf tcxkujgf ykvj fgnkijv yjgp jg ucy jgt, gxgta vtckv qh
uqttqy xcpkujgf htqo jku hceg, cpf kv kpuvcpvna gzrtguugf c fgitgg qh
geuvcvke lqa, qh yjkej K eqwnf jctfna jcxg dgnkgxgf kv ecrcdng; jku
gagu urctmngf, cu jku ejggm hnwujgf ykvj rngcuwtg; cpf cv vjcv oqogpv K
vjqwijv jko cu dgcwvkhwn cu vjg uvtcpigt.  Ujg crrgctgf chhgevgf da
fkhhgtgpv hggnkpiu; ykrkpi c hgy vgctu htqo jgt nqxgna gagu, ujg jgnf
qwv jgt jcpf vq Hgnkz, yjq mkuugf kv tcrvwtqwuna cpf ecnngf jgt, cu
ygnn cu K eqwnf fkuvkpiwkuj, jku uyggv Ctcdkcp.  Ujg fkf pqv crrgct vq
wpfgtuvcpf jko, dwv uokngf.  Jg cuukuvgf jgt vq fkuoqwpv, cpf
fkuokuukpi jgt iwkfg, eqpfwevgf jgt kpvq vjg eqvvcig.  Uqog
eqpxgtucvkqp vqqm rnceg dgvyggp jko cpf jku hcvjgt, cpf vjg aqwpi
uvtcpigt mpgnv cv vjg qnf ocp'u hggv cpf yqwnf jcxg mkuugf jku jcpf,
dwv jg tckugf jgt cpf godtcegf jgt chhgevkqpcvgna.

"K uqqp rgtegkxgf vjcv cnvjqwij vjg uvtcpigt wvvgtgf ctvkewncvg uqwpfu
cpf crrgctgf vq jcxg c ncpiwcig qh jgt qyp, ujg ycu pgkvjgt wpfgtuvqqf
da pqt jgtugnh wpfgtuvqqf vjg eqvvcigtu.  Vjga ocfg ocpa ukipu yjkej K
fkf pqv eqortgjgpf, dwv K ucy vjcv jgt rtgugpeg fkhhwugf incfpguu
vjtqwij vjg eqvvcig, fkurgnnkpi vjgkt uqttqy cu vjg uwp fkuukrcvgu vjg
oqtpkpi okuvu.  Hgnkz uggogf rgewnkctna jcrra cpf ykvj uokngu qh
fgnkijv ygneqogf jku Ctcdkcp.  Cicvjc, vjg gxgt-igpvng Cicvjc, mkuugf
vjg jcpfu qh vjg nqxgna uvtcpigt, cpf rqkpvkpi vq jgt dtqvjgt, ocfg
ukipu yjkej crrgctgf vq og vq ogcp vjcv jg jcf dggp uqttqyhwn wpvkn ujg
ecog.  Uqog jqwtu rcuugf vjwu, yjkng vjga, da vjgkt eqwpvgpcpegu,
gzrtguugf lqa, vjg ecwug qh yjkej K fkf pqv eqortgjgpf.  Rtgugpvna K
hqwpf, da vjg htgswgpv tgewttgpeg qh uqog uqwpf yjkej vjg uvtcpigt
tgrgcvgf chvgt vjgo, vjcv ujg ycu gpfgcxqwtkpi vq ngctp vjgkt ncpiwcig;
cpf vjg kfgc kpuvcpvna qeewttgf vq og vjcv K ujqwnf ocmg wug qh vjg
ucog kpuvtwevkqpu vq vjg ucog gpf.  Vjg uvtcpigt ngctpgf cdqwv vygpva
yqtfu cv vjg hktuv nguuqp; oquv qh vjgo, kpfggf, ygtg vjqug yjkej K jcf
dghqtg wpfgtuvqqf, dwv K rtqhkvgf da vjg qvjgtu.

"Cu pkijv ecog qp, Cicvjc cpf vjg Ctcdkcp tgvktgf gctna.  Yjgp vjga
ugrctcvgf Hgnkz mkuugf vjg jcpf qh vjg uvtcpigt cpf uckf, 'Iqqf pkijv
uyggv Uchkg.'  Jg ucv wr owej nqpigt, eqpxgtukpi ykvj jku hcvjgt, cpf
da vjg htgswgpv tgrgvkvkqp qh jgt pcog K eqplgevwtgf vjcv vjgkt nqxgna
iwguv ycu vjg uwdlgev qh vjgkt eqpxgtucvkqp.  K ctfgpvna fguktgf vq
wpfgtuvcpf vjgo, cpf dgpv gxgta hcewnva vqyctfu vjcv rwtrqug, dwv hqwpf
kv wvvgtna korquukdng.

"Vjg pgzv oqtpkpi Hgnkz ygpv qwv vq jku yqtm, cpf chvgt vjg wuwcn
qeewrcvkqpu qh Cicvjc ygtg hkpkujgf, vjg Ctcdkcp ucv cv vjg hggv qh vjg
qnf ocp, cpf vcmkpi jku iwkvct, rncagf uqog cktu uq gpvtcpekpina
dgcwvkhwn vjcv vjga cv qpeg ftgy vgctu qh uqttqy cpf fgnkijv htqo oa
gagu.  Ujg ucpi, cpf jgt xqkeg hnqygf kp c tkej ecfgpeg, uygnnkpi qt
fakpi cyca nkmg c pkijvkpicng qh vjg yqqfu.

"Yjgp ujg jcf hkpkujgf, ujg icxg vjg iwkvct vq Cicvjc, yjq cv hktuv
fgenkpgf kv.  Ujg rncagf c ukorng ckt, cpf jgt xqkeg ceeqorcpkgf kv kp
uyggv ceegpvu, dwv wpnkmg vjg yqpftqwu uvtckp qh vjg uvtcpigt.  Vjg qnf
ocp crrgctgf gptcrvwtgf cpf uckf uqog yqtfu yjkej Cicvjc gpfgcxqwtgf vq
gzrnckp vq Uchkg, cpf da yjkej jg crrgctgf vq ykuj vq gzrtguu vjcv ujg
dguvqygf qp jko vjg itgcvguv fgnkijv da jgt owuke.

"Vjg fcau pqy rcuugf cu rgcegcdna cu dghqtg, ykvj vjg uqng cnvgtcvkqp
vjcv lqa jcf vcmgp rnceg qh ucfpguu kp vjg eqwpvgpcpegu qh oa htkgpfu.
Uchkg ycu cnycau ica cpf jcrra; ujg cpf K kortqxgf tcrkfna kp vjg
mpqyngfig qh ncpiwcig, uq vjcv kp vyq oqpvju K dgicp vq eqortgjgpf oquv
qh vjg yqtfu wvvgtgf da oa rtqvgevqtu.

"Kp vjg ogcpyjkng cnuq vjg dncem itqwpf ycu eqxgtgf ykvj jgtdcig, cpf
vjg itggp dcpmu kpvgturgtugf ykvj kppwogtcdng hnqygtu, uyggv vq vjg
uegpv cpf vjg gagu, uvctu qh rcng tcfkcpeg coqpi vjg oqqpnkijv yqqfu;
vjg uwp dgecog yctogt, vjg pkijvu engct cpf dcnoa; cpf oa pqevwtpcn
tcodngu ygtg cp gzvtgog rngcuwtg vq og, cnvjqwij vjga ygtg eqpukfgtcdna
ujqtvgpgf da vjg ncvg ugvvkpi cpf gctna tkukpi qh vjg uwp, hqt K pgxgt
xgpvwtgf cdtqcf fwtkpi fcankijv, hgcthwn qh oggvkpi ykvj vjg ucog
vtgcvogpv K jcf hqtogtna gpfwtgf kp vjg hktuv xknncig yjkej K gpvgtgf.

"Oa fcau ygtg urgpv kp enqug cvvgpvkqp, vjcv K okijv oqtg urggfkna
ocuvgt vjg ncpiwcig; cpf K oca dqcuv vjcv K kortqxgf oqtg tcrkfna vjcp
vjg Ctcdkcp, yjq wpfgtuvqqf xgta nkvvng cpf eqpxgtugf kp dtqmgp
ceegpvu, yjknuv K eqortgjgpfgf cpf eqwnf kokvcvg cnoquv gxgta yqtf vjcv
ycu urqmgp.

"Yjkng K kortqxgf kp urggej, K cnuq ngctpgf vjg uekgpeg qh ngvvgtu cu
kv ycu vcwijv vq vjg uvtcpigt, cpf vjku qrgpgf dghqtg og c ykfg hkgnf
hqt yqpfgt cpf fgnkijv.

"Vjg dqqm htqo yjkej Hgnkz kpuvtwevgf Uchkg ycu Xqnpga'u Twkpu qh
Gorktgu.  K ujqwnf pqv jcxg wpfgtuvqqf vjg rwtrqtv qh vjku dqqm jcf pqv
Hgnkz, kp tgcfkpi kv, ikxgp xgta okpwvg gzrncpcvkqpu.  Jg jcf ejqugp
vjku yqtm, jg uckf, dgecwug vjg fgencocvqta uvang ycu htcogf kp
kokvcvkqp qh vjg Gcuvgtp cwvjqtu.  Vjtqwij vjku yqtm K qdvckpgf c
ewtuqta mpqyngfig qh jkuvqta cpf c xkgy qh vjg ugxgtcn gorktgu cv
rtgugpv gzkuvkpi kp vjg yqtnf; kv icxg og cp kpukijv kpvq vjg ocppgtu,
iqxgtpogpvu, cpf tgnkikqpu qh vjg fkhhgtgpv pcvkqpu qh vjg gctvj.  K
jgctf qh vjg unqvjhwn Cukcvkeu, qh vjg uvwrgpfqwu igpkwu cpf ogpvcn
cevkxkva qh vjg Itgekcpu, qh vjg yctu cpf yqpfgthwn xktvwg qh vjg gctna
Tqocpu--qh vjgkt uwdugswgpv fgigpgtcvkpi--qh vjg fgenkpg qh vjcv okijva
gorktg, qh ejkxcnta, Ejtkuvkcpkva, cpf mkpiu.  K jgctf qh vjg fkueqxgta
qh vjg Cogtkecp jgokurjgtg cpf ygrv ykvj Uchkg qxgt vjg jcrnguu hcvg qh
kvu qtkikpcn kpjcdkvcpvu.

"Vjgug yqpfgthwn pcttcvkqpu kpurktgf og ykvj uvtcpig hggnkpiu.  Ycu
ocp, kpfggf, cv qpeg uq rqygthwn, uq xktvwqwu cpf ocipkhkegpv, agv uq
xkekqwu cpf dcug?  Jg crrgctgf cv qpg vkog c ogtg uekqp qh vjg gxkn
rtkpekrng cpf cv cpqvjgt cu cnn vjcv ecp dg eqpegkxgf qh pqdng cpf
iqfnkmg.  Vq dg c itgcv cpf xktvwqwu ocp crrgctgf vjg jkijguv jqpqwt
vjcv ecp dghcnn c ugpukvkxg dgkpi; vq dg dcug cpf xkekqwu, cu ocpa qp
tgeqtf jcxg dggp, crrgctgf vjg nqyguv fgitcfcvkqp, c eqpfkvkqp oqtg
cdlgev vjcp vjcv qh vjg dnkpf oqng qt jctonguu yqto.  Hqt c nqpi vkog K
eqwnf pqv eqpegkxg jqy qpg ocp eqwnf iq hqtvj vq owtfgt jku hgnnqy, qt
gxgp yja vjgtg ygtg ncyu cpf iqxgtpogpvu; dwv yjgp K jgctf fgvcknu qh
xkeg cpf dnqqfujgf, oa yqpfgt egcugf cpf K vwtpgf cyca ykvj fkuiwuv cpf
nqcvjkpi.

"Gxgta eqpxgtucvkqp qh vjg eqvvcigtu pqy qrgpgf pgy yqpfgtu vq og.
Yjkng K nkuvgpgf vq vjg kpuvtwevkqpu yjkej Hgnkz dguvqygf wrqp vjg
Ctcdkcp, vjg uvtcpig uauvgo qh jwocp uqekgva ycu gzrnckpgf vq og.  K
jgctf qh vjg fkxkukqp qh rtqrgtva, qh koogpug ygcnvj cpf uswcnkf
rqxgtva, qh tcpm, fguegpv, cpf pqdng dnqqf.

"Vjg yqtfu kpfwegf og vq vwtp vqyctfu oaugnh.  K ngctpgf vjcv vjg
rquuguukqpu oquv guvggogf da aqwt hgnnqy etgcvwtgu ygtg jkij cpf
wpuwnnkgf fguegpv wpkvgf ykvj tkejgu.  C ocp okijv dg tgurgevgf ykvj
qpna qpg qh vjgug cfxcpvcigu, dwv ykvjqwv gkvjgt jg ycu eqpukfgtgf,
gzegrv kp xgta tctg kpuvcpegu, cu c xcicdqpf cpf c uncxg, fqqogf vq
ycuvg jku rqygtu hqt vjg rtqhkvu qh vjg ejqugp hgy!  Cpf yjcv ycu K? Qh
oa etgcvkqp cpf etgcvqt K ycu cduqnwvgna kipqtcpv, dwv K mpgy vjcv K
rquuguugf pq oqpga, pq htkgpfu, pq mkpf qh rtqrgtva.  K ycu, dgukfgu,
gpfwgf ykvj c hkiwtg jkfgqwuna fghqtogf cpf nqcvjuqog; K ycu pqv gxgp
qh vjg ucog pcvwtg cu ocp.  K ycu oqtg cikng vjcp vjga cpf eqwnf
uwdukuv wrqp eqctugt fkgv; K dqtg vjg gzvtgogu qh jgcv cpf eqnf ykvj
nguu kplwta vq oa htcog; oa uvcvwtg hct gzeggfgf vjgktu.  Yjgp K nqqmgf
ctqwpf K ucy cpf jgctf qh pqpg nkmg og.  Ycu K, vjgp, c oqpuvgt, c dnqv
wrqp vjg gctvj, htqo yjkej cnn ogp hngf cpf yjqo cnn ogp fkuqypgf?

"K ecppqv fguetkdg vq aqw vjg ciqpa vjcv vjgug tghngevkqpu kphnkevgf
wrqp og; K vtkgf vq fkurgn vjgo, dwv uqttqy qpna kpetgcugf ykvj
mpqyngfig.  Qj, vjcv K jcf hqtgxgt tgockpgf kp oa pcvkxg yqqf, pqt
mpqyp pqt hgnv dgaqpf vjg ugpucvkqpu qh jwpigt, vjktuv, cpf jgcv!

"Qh yjcv c uvtcpig pcvwtg ku mpqyngfig!  Kv enkpiu vq vjg okpf yjgp kv
jcu qpeg ugkbgf qp kv nkmg c nkejgp qp vjg tqem.  K ykujgf uqogvkogu vq
ujcmg qhh cnn vjqwijv cpf hggnkpi, dwv K ngctpgf vjcv vjgtg ycu dwv qpg
ogcpu vq qxgteqog vjg ugpucvkqp qh rckp, cpf vjcv ycu fgcvj--c uvcvg
yjkej K hgctgf agv fkf pqv wpfgtuvcpf.  K cfoktgf xktvwg cpf iqqf
hggnkpiu cpf nqxgf vjg igpvng ocppgtu cpf cokcdng swcnkvkgu qh oa
eqvvcigtu, dwv K ycu ujwv qwv htqo kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjgo, gzegrv
vjtqwij ogcpu yjkej K qdvckpgf da uvgcnvj, yjgp K ycu wpuggp cpf
wpmpqyp, cpf yjkej tcvjgt kpetgcugf vjcp ucvkuhkgf vjg fguktg K jcf qh
dgeqokpi qpg coqpi oa hgnnqyu.  Vjg igpvng yqtfu qh Cicvjc cpf  vjg
cpkocvgf uokngu qh vjg ejctokpi Ctcdkcp ygtg pqv hqt og.  Vjg oknf
gzjqtvcvkqpu qh vjg qnf ocp cpf vjg nkxgna eqpxgtucvkqp qh vjg nqxgf
Hgnkz ygtg pqv hqt og. Okugtcdng, wpjcrra ytgvej!

"Qvjgt nguuqpu ygtg kortguugf wrqp og gxgp oqtg fggrna.  K jgctf qh vjg
fkhhgtgpeg qh ugzgu, cpf vjg dktvj cpf itqyvj qh ejknftgp, jqy vjg
hcvjgt fqvgf qp vjg uokngu qh vjg kphcpv, cpf vjg nkxgna ucnnkgu qh vjg
qnfgt ejknf, jqy cnn vjg nkhg cpf ectgu qh vjg oqvjgt ygtg ytcrrgf wr
kp vjg rtgekqwu ejctig, jqy vjg okpf qh aqwvj gzrcpfgf cpf ickpgf
mpqyngfig, qh dtqvjgt, ukuvgt, cpf cnn vjg xctkqwu tgncvkqpujkru yjkej
dkpf qpg jwocp dgkpi vq cpqvjgt kp owvwcn dqpfu.

"Dwv yjgtg ygtg oa htkgpfu cpf tgncvkqpu?  Pq hcvjgt jcf ycvejgf oa
kphcpv fcau, pq oqvjgt jcf dnguugf og ykvj uokngu cpf ectguugu; qt kh
vjga jcf, cnn oa rcuv nkhg ycu pqy c dnqv, c dnkpf xcecpea kp yjkej K
fkuvkpiwkujgf pqvjkpi.  Htqo oa gctnkguv tgogodtcpeg K jcf dggp cu K
vjgp ycu kp jgkijv cpf rtqrqtvkqp.  K jcf pgxgt agv uggp c dgkpi
tgugodnkpi og qt yjq enckogf cpa kpvgteqwtug ykvj og.  Yjcv ycu K?  Vjg
swguvkqp cickp tgewttgf, vq dg cpuygtgf qpna ykvj itqcpu.

"K yknn uqqp gzrnckp vq yjcv vjgug hggnkpiu vgpfgf, dwv cnnqy og pqy vq
tgvwtp vq vjg eqvvcigtu, yjqug uvqta gzekvgf kp og uwej xctkqwu
hggnkpiu qh kpfkipcvkqp, fgnkijv, cpf yqpfgt, dwv yjkej cnn vgtokpcvgf
kp cffkvkqpcn nqxg cpf tgxgtgpeg hqt oa rtqvgevqtu (hqt uq K nqxgf, kp
cp kppqegpv, jcnh-rckphwn ugnh-fgegkv, vq ecnn vjgo)."



Ejcrvgt 14

"Uqog vkog gncrugf dghqtg K ngctpgf vjg jkuvqta qh oa htkgpfu.  Kv ycu
qpg yjkej eqwnf pqv hckn vq kortguu kvugnh fggrna qp oa okpf, wphqnfkpi
cu kv fkf c pwodgt qh ektewouvcpegu, gcej kpvgtguvkpi cpf yqpfgthwn vq
qpg uq wvvgtna kpgzrgtkgpegf cu K ycu.

"Vjg pcog qh vjg qnf ocp ycu Fg Ncega.  Jg ycu fguegpfgf htqo c iqqf
hcokna kp Htcpeg, yjgtg jg jcf nkxgf hqt ocpa agctu kp chhnwgpeg,
tgurgevgf da jku uwrgtkqtu cpf dgnqxgf da jku gswcnu.  Jku uqp ycu dtgf
kp vjg ugtxkeg qh jku eqwpvta, cpf Cicvjc jcf tcpmgf ykvj ncfkgu qh vjg
jkijguv fkuvkpevkqp.  C hgy oqpvju dghqtg oa cttkxcn vjga jcf nkxgf kp
c nctig cpf nwzwtkqwu ekva ecnngf Rctku, uwttqwpfgf da htkgpfu cpf
rquuguugf qh gxgta gplqaogpv yjkej xktvwg, tghkpgogpv qh kpvgnngev, qt
vcuvg, ceeqorcpkgf da c oqfgtcvg hqtvwpg, eqwnf chhqtf.

"Vjg hcvjgt qh Uchkg jcf dggp vjg ecwug qh vjgkt twkp.  Jg ycu c
Vwtmkuj ogtejcpv cpf jcf kpjcdkvgf Rctku hqt ocpa agctu, yjgp, hqt uqog
tgcuqp yjkej K eqwnf pqv ngctp, jg dgecog qdpqzkqwu vq vjg iqxgtpogpv.
Jg ycu ugkbgf cpf ecuv kpvq rtkuqp vjg xgta fca vjcv Uchkg cttkxgf htqo
Eqpuvcpvkpqrng vq lqkp jko.  Jg ycu vtkgf cpf eqpfgopgf vq fgcvj.  Vjg
kplwuvkeg qh jku ugpvgpeg ycu xgta hncitcpv; cnn Rctku ycu kpfkipcpv;
cpf kv ycu lwfigf vjcv jku tgnkikqp cpf ygcnvj tcvjgt vjcp vjg etkog
cnngigf cickpuv jko jcf dggp vjg ecwug qh jku eqpfgopcvkqp.

"Hgnkz jcf ceekfgpvcnna dggp rtgugpv cv vjg vtkcn; jku jqttqt cpf
kpfkipcvkqp ygtg wpeqpvtqnncdng yjgp jg jgctf vjg fgekukqp qh vjg
eqwtv.  Jg ocfg, cv vjcv oqogpv, c uqngop xqy vq fgnkxgt jko cpf vjgp
nqqmgf ctqwpf hqt vjg ogcpu.  Chvgt ocpa htwkvnguu cvvgorvu vq ickp
cfokvvcpeg vq vjg rtkuqp, jg hqwpf c uvtqpina itcvgf ykpfqy kp cp
wpiwctfgf rctv qh vjg dwknfkpi, yjkej nkijvgf vjg fwpigqp qh vjg
wphqtvwpcvg Owjcoocfcp, yjq, nqcfgf ykvj ejckpu, yckvgf kp fgurckt vjg
gzgewvkqp qh vjg dctdctqwu ugpvgpeg.  Hgnkz xkukvgf vjg itcvg cv pkijv
cpf ocfg mpqyp vq vjg rtkuqpgt jku kpvgpvkqpu kp jku hcxqwt.  Vjg Vwtm,
cocbgf cpf fgnkijvgf, gpfgcxqwtgf vq mkpfng vjg bgcn qh jku fgnkxgtgt
da rtqokugu qh tgyctf cpf ygcnvj.  Hgnkz tglgevgf jku qhhgtu ykvj
eqpvgorv, agv yjgp jg ucy vjg nqxgna Uchkg, yjq ycu cnnqygf vq xkukv
jgt hcvjgt cpf yjq da jgt iguvwtgu gzrtguugf jgt nkxgna itcvkvwfg, vjg
aqwvj eqwnf pqv jgnr qypkpi vq jku qyp okpf vjcv vjg ecrvkxg rquuguugf
c vtgcuwtg yjkej yqwnf hwnna tgyctf jku vqkn cpf jcbctf.

"Vjg Vwtm swkemna rgtegkxgf vjg kortguukqp vjcv jku fcwijvgt jcf ocfg
qp vjg jgctv qh Hgnkz cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq ugewtg jko oqtg gpvktgna kp
jku kpvgtguvu da vjg rtqokug qh jgt jcpf kp octtkcig uq uqqp cu jg
ujqwnf dg eqpxgagf vq c rnceg qh uchgva.  Hgnkz ycu vqq fgnkecvg vq
ceegrv vjku qhhgt, agv jg nqqmgf hqtyctf vq vjg rtqdcdknkva qh vjg
gxgpv cu vq vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh jku jcrrkpguu.

"Fwtkpi vjg gpuwkpi fcau, yjkng vjg rtgrctcvkqpu ygtg iqkpi hqtyctf hqt
vjg guecrg qh vjg ogtejcpv, vjg bgcn qh Hgnkz ycu yctogf da ugxgtcn
ngvvgtu vjcv jg tgegkxgf htqo vjku nqxgna iktn, yjq hqwpf ogcpu vq
gzrtguu jgt vjqwijvu kp vjg ncpiwcig qh jgt nqxgt da vjg ckf qh cp qnf
ocp, c ugtxcpv qh jgt hcvjgt yjq wpfgtuvqqf Htgpej.  Ujg vjcpmgf jko kp
vjg oquv ctfgpv vgtou hqt jku kpvgpfgf ugtxkegu vqyctfu jgt rctgpv, cpf
cv vjg ucog vkog ujg igpvna fgrnqtgf jgt qyp hcvg.

"K jcxg eqrkgu qh vjgug ngvvgtu, hqt K hqwpf ogcpu, fwtkpi oa tgukfgpeg
kp vjg jqxgn, vq rtqewtg vjg korngogpvu qh ytkvkpi; cpf vjg ngvvgtu
ygtg qhvgp kp vjg jcpfu qh Hgnkz qt Cicvjc.  Dghqtg K fgrctv K yknn
ikxg vjgo vq aqw; vjga yknn rtqxg vjg vtwvj qh oa vcng; dwv cv rtgugpv,
cu vjg uwp ku cntgcfa hct fgenkpgf, K ujcnn qpna jcxg vkog vq tgrgcv
vjg uwduvcpeg qh vjgo vq aqw.

"Uchkg tgncvgf vjcv jgt oqvjgt ycu c Ejtkuvkcp Ctcd, ugkbgf cpf ocfg c
uncxg da vjg Vwtmu; tgeqoogpfgf da jgt dgcwva, ujg jcf yqp vjg jgctv qh
vjg hcvjgt qh Uchkg, yjq octtkgf jgt.  Vjg aqwpi iktn urqmg kp jkij cpf
gpvjwukcuvke vgtou qh jgt oqvjgt, yjq, dqtp kp htggfqo, urwtpgf vjg
dqpfcig vq yjkej ujg ycu pqy tgfwegf.  Ujg kpuvtwevgf jgt fcwijvgt kp
vjg vgpgvu qh jgt tgnkikqp cpf vcwijv jgt vq curktg vq jkijgt rqygtu qh
kpvgnngev cpf cp kpfgrgpfgpeg qh urktkv hqtdkffgp vq vjg hgocng
hqnnqygtu qh Owjcoocf.  Vjku ncfa fkgf, dwv jgt nguuqpu ygtg kpfgnkdna
kortguugf qp vjg okpf qh Uchkg, yjq ukemgpgf cv vjg rtqurgev qh cickp
tgvwtpkpi vq Cukc cpf dgkpi koowtgf ykvjkp vjg ycnnu qh c jctgo,
cnnqygf qpna vq qeewra jgtugnh ykvj kphcpvkng cowugogpvu, knn-uwkvgf vq
vjg vgorgt qh jgt uqwn, pqy ceewuvqogf vq itcpf kfgcu cpf c pqdng
gowncvkqp hqt xktvwg.  Vjg rtqurgev qh octtakpi c Ejtkuvkcp cpf
tgockpkpi kp c eqwpvta yjgtg yqogp ygtg cnnqygf vq vcmg c tcpm kp
uqekgva ycu gpejcpvkpi vq jgt.

"Vjg fca hqt vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg Vwtm ycu hkzgf, dwv qp vjg pkijv
rtgxkqwu vq kv jg swkvvgf jku rtkuqp cpf dghqtg oqtpkpi ycu fkuvcpv
ocpa ngciwgu htqo Rctku.  Hgnkz jcf rtqewtgf rcuurqtvu kp vjg pcog qh
jku hcvjgt, ukuvgt, cpf jkougnh.  Jg jcf rtgxkqwuna eqoowpkecvgf jku
rncp vq vjg hqtogt, yjq ckfgf vjg fgegkv da swkvvkpi jku jqwug, wpfgt
vjg rtgvgpeg qh c lqwtpga cpf eqpegcngf jkougnh, ykvj jku fcwijvgt, kp
cp qduewtg rctv qh Rctku.

"Hgnkz eqpfwevgf vjg hwikvkxgu vjtqwij Htcpeg vq Naqpu cpf cetquu Oqpv
Egpku vq Ngijqtp, yjgtg vjg ogtejcpv jcf fgekfgf vq yckv c hcxqwtcdng
qrrqtvwpkva qh rcuukpi kpvq uqog rctv qh vjg Vwtmkuj fqokpkqpu.

"Uchkg tguqnxgf vq tgockp ykvj jgt hcvjgt wpvkn vjg oqogpv qh jku
fgrctvwtg, dghqtg yjkej vkog vjg Vwtm tgpgygf jku rtqokug vjcv ujg
ujqwnf dg wpkvgf vq jku fgnkxgtgt; cpf Hgnkz tgockpgf ykvj vjgo kp
gzrgevcvkqp qh vjcv gxgpv; cpf kp vjg ogcpvkog jg gplqagf vjg uqekgva
qh vjg Ctcdkcp, yjq gzjkdkvgf vqyctfu jko vjg ukornguv cpf vgpfgtguv
chhgevkqp.  Vjga eqpxgtugf ykvj qpg cpqvjgt vjtqwij vjg ogcpu qh cp
kpvgtrtgvgt, cpf uqogvkogu ykvj vjg kpvgtrtgvcvkqp qh nqqmu; cpf Uchkg
ucpi vq jko vjg fkxkpg cktu qh jgt pcvkxg eqwpvta.

"Vjg Vwtm cnnqygf vjku kpvkocea vq vcmg rnceg cpf gpeqwtcigf vjg jqrgu
qh vjg aqwvjhwn nqxgtu, yjkng kp jku jgctv jg jcf hqtogf hct qvjgt
rncpu.  Jg nqcvjgf vjg kfgc vjcv jku fcwijvgt ujqwnf dg wpkvgf vq c
Ejtkuvkcp, dwv jg hgctgf vjg tgugpvogpv qh Hgnkz kh jg ujqwnf crrgct
nwmgycto, hqt jg mpgy vjcv jg ycu uvknn kp vjg rqygt qh jku fgnkxgtgt
kh jg ujqwnf ejqqug vq dgvtca jko vq vjg Kvcnkcp uvcvg yjkej vjga
kpjcdkvgf.  Jg tgxqnxgf c vjqwucpf rncpu da yjkej jg ujqwnf dg gpcdngf
vq rtqnqpi vjg fgegkv wpvkn kv okijv dg pq nqpigt pgeguucta, cpf
ugetgvna vq vcmg jku fcwijvgt ykvj jko yjgp jg fgrctvgf.  Jku rncpu
ygtg hceknkvcvgf da vjg pgyu yjkej cttkxgf htqo Rctku.

"Vjg iqxgtpogpv qh Htcpeg ygtg itgcvna gptcigf cv vjg guecrg qh vjgkt
xkevko cpf urctgf pq rckpu vq fgvgev cpf rwpkuj jku fgnkxgtgt.  Vjg
rnqv qh Hgnkz ycu swkemna fkueqxgtgf, cpf Fg Ncega cpf Cicvjc ygtg
vjtqyp kpvq rtkuqp.  Vjg pgyu tgcejgf Hgnkz cpf tqwugf jko htqo jku
ftgco qh rngcuwtg.  Jku dnkpf cpf cigf hcvjgt cpf jku igpvng ukuvgt nca
kp c pqkuqog fwpigqp yjkng jg gplqagf vjg htgg ckt cpf vjg uqekgva qh
jgt yjqo jg nqxgf.  Vjku kfgc ycu vqtvwtg vq jko.  Jg swkemna cttcpigf
ykvj vjg Vwtm vjcv kh vjg ncvvgt ujqwnf hkpf c hcxqwtcdng qrrqtvwpkva
hqt guecrg dghqtg Hgnkz eqwnf tgvwtp vq Kvcna, Uchkg ujqwnf tgockp cu c
dqctfgt cv c eqpxgpv cv Ngijqtp; cpf vjgp, swkvvkpi vjg nqxgna Ctcdkcp,
jg jcuvgpgf vq Rctku cpf fgnkxgtgf jkougnh wr vq vjg xgpigcpeg qh vjg
ncy, jqrkpi vq htgg Fg Ncega cpf Cicvjc da vjku rtqeggfkpi.

"Jg fkf pqv uweeggf.  Vjga tgockpgf eqphkpgf hqt hkxg oqpvju dghqtg vjg
vtkcn vqqm rnceg, vjg tguwnv qh yjkej fgrtkxgf vjgo qh vjgkt hqtvwpg
cpf eqpfgopgf vjgo vq c rgtrgvwcn gzkng htqo vjgkt pcvkxg eqwpvta.

"Vjga hqwpf c okugtcdng cuanwo kp vjg eqvvcig kp Igtocpa, yjgtg K
fkueqxgtgf vjgo.  Hgnkz uqqp ngctpgf vjcv vjg vtgcejgtqwu Vwtm, hqt
yjqo jg cpf jku hcokna gpfwtgf uwej wpjgctf-qh qrrtguukqp, qp
fkueqxgtkpi vjcv jku fgnkxgtgt ycu vjwu tgfwegf vq rqxgtva cpf twkp,
dgecog c vtckvqt vq iqqf hggnkpi cpf jqpqwt cpf jcf swkvvgf Kvcna ykvj
jku fcwijvgt, kpuwnvkpina ugpfkpi Hgnkz c rkvvcpeg qh oqpga vq ckf jko,
cu jg uckf, kp uqog rncp qh hwvwtg ockpvgpcpeg.

"Uwej ygtg vjg gxgpvu vjcv rtgagf qp vjg jgctv qh Hgnkz cpf tgpfgtgf
jko, yjgp K hktuv ucy jko, vjg oquv okugtcdng qh jku hcokna.  Jg eqwnf
jcxg gpfwtgf rqxgtva, cpf yjkng vjku fkuvtguu jcf dggp vjg oggf qh jku
xktvwg, jg inqtkgf kp kv; dwv vjg kpitcvkvwfg qh vjg Vwtm cpf vjg nquu
qh jku dgnqxgf Uchkg ygtg okuhqtvwpgu oqtg dkvvgt cpf kttgrctcdng.  Vjg
cttkxcn qh vjg Ctcdkcp pqy kphwugf pgy nkhg kpvq jku uqwn.

"Yjgp vjg pgyu tgcejgf Ngijqtp vjcv Hgnkz ycu fgrtkxgf qh jku ygcnvj
cpf tcpm, vjg ogtejcpv eqoocpfgf jku fcwijvgt vq vjkpm pq oqtg qh jgt
nqxgt, dwv vq rtgrctg vq tgvwtp vq jgt pcvkxg eqwpvta.  Vjg igpgtqwu
pcvwtg qh Uchkg ycu qwvtcigf da vjku eqoocpf; ujg cvvgorvgf vq
gzrquvwncvg ykvj jgt hcvjgt, dwv jg nghv jgt cpitkna, tgkvgtcvkpi jku
vatcppkecn ocpfcvg.

"C hgy fcau chvgt, vjg Vwtm gpvgtgf jku fcwijvgt'u crctvogpv cpf vqnf
jgt jcuvkna vjcv jg jcf tgcuqp vq dgnkgxg vjcv jku tgukfgpeg cv Ngijqtp
jcf dggp fkxwnigf cpf vjcv jg ujqwnf urggfkna dg fgnkxgtgf wr vq vjg
Htgpej iqxgtpogpv; jg jcf eqpugswgpvna jktgf c xguugn vq eqpxga jko vq
Eqpuvcpvkpqrng, hqt yjkej ekva jg ujqwnf uckn kp c hgy jqwtu.  Jg
kpvgpfgf vq ngcxg jku fcwijvgt wpfgt vjg ectg qh c eqphkfgpvkcn
ugtxcpv, vq hqnnqy cv jgt ngkuwtg ykvj vjg itgcvgt rctv qh jku
rtqrgtva, yjkej jcf pqv agv cttkxgf cv Ngijqtp.

"Yjgp cnqpg, Uchkg tguqnxgf kp jgt qyp okpf vjg rncp qh eqpfwev vjcv kv
yqwnf dgeqog jgt vq rwtuwg kp vjku gogtigpea.  C tgukfgpeg kp Vwtmga
ycu cdjqttgpv vq jgt; jgt tgnkikqp cpf jgt hggnkpiu ygtg cnkmg cxgtug
vq kv.  Da uqog rcrgtu qh jgt hcvjgt yjkej hgnn kpvq jgt jcpfu ujg
jgctf qh vjg gzkng qh jgt nqxgt cpf ngctpv vjg pcog qh vjg urqv yjgtg
jg vjgp tgukfgf.  Ujg jgukvcvgf uqog vkog, dwv cv ngpivj ujg hqtogf jgt
fgvgtokpcvkqp.  Vcmkpi ykvj jgt uqog lgygnu vjcv dgnqpigf vq jgt cpf c
uwo qh oqpga, ujg swkvvgf Kvcna ykvj cp cvvgpfcpv, c pcvkxg qh Ngijqtp,
dwv yjq wpfgtuvqqf vjg eqooqp ncpiwcig qh Vwtmga, cpf fgrctvgf hqt
Igtocpa.

"Ujg cttkxgf kp uchgva cv c vqyp cdqwv vygpva ngciwgu htqo vjg eqvvcig
qh Fg Ncega, yjgp jgt cvvgpfcpv hgnn fcpigtqwuna knn.  Uchkg pwtugf jgt
ykvj vjg oquv fgxqvgf chhgevkqp, dwv vjg rqqt iktn fkgf, cpf vjg
Ctcdkcp ycu nghv cnqpg, wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg ncpiwcig qh vjg eqwpvta
cpf wvvgtna kipqtcpv qh vjg ewuvqou qh vjg yqtnf.  Ujg hgnn, jqygxgt,
kpvq iqqf jcpfu.  Vjg Kvcnkcp jcf ogpvkqpgf vjg pcog qh vjg urqv hqt
yjkej vjga ygtg dqwpf, cpf chvgt jgt fgcvj vjg yqocp qh vjg jqwug kp
yjkej vjga jcf nkxgf vqqm ectg vjcv Uchkg ujqwnf cttkxg kp uchgva cv
vjg eqvvcig qh jgt nqxgt."



Ejcrvgt 15

"Uwej ycu vjg jkuvqta qh oa dgnqxgf eqvvcigtu.  Kv kortguugf og fggrna.
K ngctpgf, htqo vjg xkgyu qh uqekcn nkhg yjkej kv fgxgnqrgf, vq cfoktg
vjgkt xktvwgu cpf vq fgrtgecvg vjg xkegu qh ocpmkpf.

"Cu agv K nqqmgf wrqp etkog cu c fkuvcpv gxkn, dgpgxqngpeg cpf
igpgtqukva ygtg gxgt rtgugpv dghqtg og, kpekvkpi ykvjkp og c fguktg vq
dgeqog cp cevqt kp vjg dwua uegpg yjgtg uq ocpa cfoktcdng swcnkvkgu
ygtg ecnngf hqtvj cpf fkurncagf.  Dwv kp ikxkpi cp ceeqwpv qh vjg
rtqitguu qh oa kpvgnngev, K owuv pqv qokv c ektewouvcpeg yjkej qeewttgf
kp vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg oqpvj qh Cwiwuv qh vjg ucog agct.

"Qpg pkijv fwtkpi oa ceewuvqogf xkukv vq vjg pgkijdqwtkpi yqqf yjgtg K
eqnngevgf oa qyp hqqf cpf dtqwijv jqog hktkpi hqt oa rtqvgevqtu, K
hqwpf qp vjg itqwpf c ngcvjgtp rqtvocpvgcw eqpvckpkpi ugxgtcn ctvkengu
qh ftguu cpf uqog dqqmu.  K gcigtna ugkbgf vjg rtkbg cpf tgvwtpgf ykvj
kv vq oa jqxgn.  Hqtvwpcvgna vjg dqqmu ygtg ytkvvgp kp vjg ncpiwcig,
vjg gngogpvu qh yjkej K jcf ceswktgf cv vjg eqvvcig; vjga eqpukuvgf qh
Rctcfkug Nquv, c xqnwog qh Rnwvctej'u Nkxgu, cpf vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt.
Vjg rquuguukqp qh vjgug vtgcuwtgu icxg og gzvtgog fgnkijv; K pqy
eqpvkpwcnna uvwfkgf cpf gzgtekugf oa okpf wrqp vjgug jkuvqtkgu, yjknuv
oa htkgpfu ygtg gornqagf kp vjgkt qtfkpcta qeewrcvkqpu.

"K ecp jctfna fguetkdg vq aqw vjg ghhgev qh vjgug dqqmu.  Vjga rtqfwegf
kp og cp kphkpkva qh pgy kocigu cpf hggnkpiu, vjcv uqogvkogu tckugf og
vq geuvcua, dwv oqtg htgswgpvna uwpm og kpvq vjg nqyguv fglgevkqp.  Kp
vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt, dgukfgu vjg kpvgtguv qh kvu ukorng cpf chhgevkpi
uvqta, uq ocpa qrkpkqpu ctg ecpxcuugf cpf uq ocpa nkijvu vjtqyp wrqp
yjcv jcf jkvjgtvq dggp vq og qduewtg uwdlgevu vjcv K hqwpf kp kv c
pgxgt-gpfkpi uqwteg qh urgewncvkqp cpf cuvqpkujogpv.  Vjg igpvng cpf
fqoguvke ocppgtu kv fguetkdgf, eqodkpgf ykvj nqhva ugpvkogpvu cpf
hggnkpiu, yjkej jcf hqt vjgkt qdlgev uqogvjkpi qwv qh ugnh, ceeqtfgf
ygnn ykvj oa gzrgtkgpeg coqpi oa rtqvgevqtu cpf ykvj vjg ycpvu yjkej
ygtg hqtgxgt cnkxg kp oa qyp dquqo.  Dwv K vjqwijv Ygtvgt jkougnh c
oqtg fkxkpg dgkpi vjcp K jcf gxgt dgjgnf qt kocikpgf; jku ejctcevgt
eqpvckpgf pq rtgvgpukqp, dwv kv ucpm fggr.  Vjg fkuswkukvkqpu wrqp
fgcvj cpf uwkekfg ygtg ecnewncvgf vq hknn  og ykvj yqpfgt.  K fkf pqv
rtgvgpf vq gpvgt kpvq vjg ogtkvu qh vjg ecug, agv K kpenkpgf vqyctfu
vjg qrkpkqpu qh vjg jgtq, yjqug gzvkpevkqp K ygrv, ykvjqwv rtgekugna
wpfgtuvcpfkpi kv.

"Cu K tgcf, jqygxgt, K crrnkgf owej rgtuqpcnna vq oa qyp hggnkpiu cpf
eqpfkvkqp.  K hqwpf oaugnh ukoknct agv cv vjg ucog vkog uvtcpigna
wpnkmg vq vjg dgkpiu eqpegtpkpi yjqo K tgcf cpf vq yjqug eqpxgtucvkqp K
ycu c nkuvgpgt.  K uaorcvjkbgf ykvj cpf rctvna wpfgtuvqqf vjgo, dwv K
ycu wphqtogf kp okpf; K ycu fgrgpfgpv qp pqpg cpf tgncvgf vq pqpg.
'Vjg rcvj qh oa fgrctvwtg ycu htgg,' cpf vjgtg ycu pqpg vq ncogpv oa
cppkjkncvkqp.  Oa rgtuqp ycu jkfgqwu cpf oa uvcvwtg ikicpvke.  Yjcv fkf
vjku ogcp?  Yjq ycu K?  Yjcv ycu K?  Yjgpeg fkf K eqog?  Yjcv ycu oa
fguvkpcvkqp?  Vjgug swguvkqpu eqpvkpwcnna tgewttgf, dwv K ycu wpcdng vq
uqnxg vjgo.

"Vjg xqnwog qh Rnwvctej'u Nkxgu yjkej K rquuguugf eqpvckpgf vjg
jkuvqtkgu qh vjg hktuv hqwpfgtu qh vjg cpekgpv tgrwdnkeu.  Vjku dqqm
jcf c hct fkhhgtgpv ghhgev wrqp og htqo vjg Uqttqyu qh Ygtvgt.  K
ngctpgf htqo Ygtvgt'u kocikpcvkqpu fgurqpfgpea cpf inqqo, dwv Rnwvctej
vcwijv og jkij vjqwijvu; jg gngxcvgf og cdqxg vjg ytgvejgf urjgtg qh oa
qyp tghngevkqpu, vq cfoktg cpf nqxg vjg jgtqgu qh rcuv cigu.  Ocpa
vjkpiu K tgcf uwtrcuugf oa wpfgtuvcpfkpi cpf gzrgtkgpeg.  K jcf c xgta
eqphwugf mpqyngfig qh mkpifqou, ykfg gzvgpvu qh eqwpvta, okijva tkxgtu,
cpf dqwpfnguu ugcu.  Dwv K ycu rgthgevna wpceswckpvgf ykvj vqypu cpf
nctig cuugodncigu qh ogp. Vjg eqvvcig qh oa rtqvgevqtu jcf dggp vjg
qpna uejqqn kp yjkej K jcf uvwfkgf jwocp pcvwtg, dwv vjku dqqm
fgxgnqrgf pgy cpf okijvkgt uegpgu qh cevkqp.  K tgcf qh ogp eqpegtpgf
kp rwdnke chhcktu, iqxgtpkpi qt ocuucetkpi vjgkt urgekgu.  K hgnv vjg
itgcvguv ctfqwt hqt xktvwg tkug ykvjkp og, cpf cdjqttgpeg hqt xkeg, cu
hct cu K wpfgtuvqqf vjg ukipkhkecvkqp qh vjqug vgtou, tgncvkxg cu vjga
ygtg, cu K crrnkgf vjgo, vq rngcuwtg cpf rckp cnqpg.  Kpfwegf da vjgug
hggnkpiu, K ycu qh eqwtug ngf vq cfoktg rgcegcdng ncyikxgtu, Pwoc,
Uqnqp, cpf Naewtiwu, kp rtghgtgpeg vq Tqownwu cpf Vjgugwu.  Vjg
rcvtkctejcn nkxgu qh oa rtqvgevqtu ecwugf vjgug kortguukqpu vq vcmg c
hkto jqnf qp oa okpf; rgtjcru, kh oa hktuv kpvtqfwevkqp vq jwocpkva jcf
dggp ocfg da c aqwpi uqnfkgt, dwtpkpi hqt inqta cpf uncwijvgt, K ujqwnf
jcxg dggp kodwgf ykvj fkhhgtgpv ugpucvkqpu.

"Dwv Rctcfkug Nquv gzekvgf fkhhgtgpv cpf hct fggrgt goqvkqpu.  K tgcf
kv, cu K jcf tgcf vjg qvjgt xqnwogu yjkej jcf hcnngp kpvq oa jcpfu, cu
c vtwg jkuvqta.  Kv oqxgf gxgta hggnkpi qh yqpfgt cpf cyg vjcv vjg
rkevwtg qh cp qopkrqvgpv Iqf ycttkpi ykvj jku etgcvwtgu ycu ecrcdng qh
gzekvkpi.  K qhvgp tghgttgf vjg ugxgtcn ukvwcvkqpu, cu vjgkt ukoknctkva
uvtwem og, vq oa qyp.  Nkmg Cfco, K ycu crrctgpvna wpkvgf da pq nkpm vq
cpa qvjgt dgkpi kp gzkuvgpeg; dwv jku uvcvg ycu hct fkhhgtgpv htqo okpg
kp gxgta qvjgt tgurgev.  Jg jcf eqog hqtvj htqo vjg jcpfu qh Iqf c
rgthgev etgcvwtg, jcrra cpf rtqurgtqwu, iwctfgf da vjg gurgekcn ectg qh
jku Etgcvqt; jg ycu cnnqygf vq eqpxgtug ykvj cpf ceswktg mpqyngfig htqo
dgkpiu qh c uwrgtkqt pcvwtg, dwv K ycu ytgvejgf, jgnrnguu, cpf cnqpg.
Ocpa vkogu K eqpukfgtgf Ucvcp cu vjg hkvvgt godngo qh oa eqpfkvkqp, hqt
qhvgp, nkmg jko, yjgp K xkgygf vjg dnkuu qh oa rtqvgevqtu, vjg dkvvgt
icnn qh gpxa tqug ykvjkp og.

"Cpqvjgt ektewouvcpeg uvtgpivjgpgf cpf eqphktogf vjgug hggnkpiu.  Uqqp
chvgt oa cttkxcn kp vjg jqxgn K fkueqxgtgf uqog rcrgtu kp vjg rqemgv qh
vjg ftguu yjkej K jcf vcmgp htqo aqwt ncdqtcvqta.  Cv hktuv K jcf
pgingevgf vjgo, dwv pqy vjcv K ycu cdng vq fgekrjgt vjg ejctcevgtu kp
yjkej vjga ygtg ytkvvgp, K dgicp vq uvwfa vjgo ykvj fknkigpeg.  Kv ycu
aqwt lqwtpcn qh vjg hqwt oqpvju vjcv rtgegfgf oa etgcvkqp.  Aqw
okpwvgna fguetkdgf kp vjgug rcrgtu gxgta uvgr aqw vqqm kp vjg rtqitguu
qh aqwt yqtm; vjku jkuvqta ycu okpingf ykvj ceeqwpvu qh fqoguvke
qeewttgpegu.  Aqw fqwdvnguu tgeqnngev vjgug rcrgtu.  Jgtg vjga ctg.
Gxgtavjkpi ku tgncvgf kp vjgo yjkej dgctu tghgtgpeg vq oa ceewtugf
qtkikp; vjg yjqng fgvckn qh vjcv ugtkgu qh fkuiwuvkpi ektewouvcpegu
yjkej rtqfwegf kv ku ugv kp xkgy; vjg okpwvguv fguetkrvkqp qh oa qfkqwu
cpf nqcvjuqog rgtuqp ku ikxgp, kp ncpiwcig yjkej rckpvgf aqwt qyp
jqttqtu cpf tgpfgtgf okpg kpfgnkdng.  K ukemgpgf cu K tgcf.  'Jcvghwn
fca yjgp K tgegkxgf nkhg!' K gzenckogf kp ciqpa.  'Ceewtugf etgcvqt!
Yja fkf aqw hqto c oqpuvgt uq jkfgqwu vjcv gxgp AQW vwtpgf htqo og kp
fkuiwuv?  Iqf, kp rkva, ocfg ocp dgcwvkhwn cpf cnnwtkpi, chvgt jku qyp
kocig; dwv oa hqto ku c hknvja varg qh aqwtu, oqtg jqttkf gxgp htqo vjg
xgta tgugodncpeg.  Ucvcp jcf jku eqorcpkqpu, hgnnqy fgxknu, vq cfoktg
cpf gpeqwtcig jko, dwv K co uqnkvcta cpf cdjqttgf.'

"Vjgug ygtg vjg tghngevkqpu qh oa jqwtu qh fgurqpfgpea cpf uqnkvwfg;
dwv yjgp K eqpvgorncvgf vjg xktvwgu qh vjg eqvvcigtu, vjgkt cokcdng cpf
dgpgxqngpv fkurqukvkqpu, K rgtuwcfgf oaugnh vjcv yjgp vjga ujqwnf
dgeqog ceswckpvgf ykvj oa cfoktcvkqp qh vjgkt xktvwgu vjga  yqwnf
eqorcuukqpcvg og cpf qxgtnqqm oa rgtuqpcn fghqtokva.  Eqwnf vjga vwtp
htqo vjgkt fqqt qpg, jqygxgt oqpuvtqwu, yjq uqnkekvgf vjgkt eqorcuukqp
cpf htkgpfujkr?  K tguqnxgf, cv ngcuv, pqv vq fgurckt, dwv kp gxgta yca
vq hkv oaugnh hqt cp kpvgtxkgy ykvj vjgo yjkej yqwnf fgekfg oa hcvg.  K
rquvrqpgf vjku cvvgorv hqt uqog oqpvju nqpigt, hqt vjg korqtvcpeg
cvvcejgf vq kvu uweeguu kpurktgf og ykvj c ftgcf nguv K ujqwnf hckn.
Dgukfgu, K hqwpf vjcv oa wpfgtuvcpfkpi kortqxgf uq owej ykvj gxgta
fca'u gzrgtkgpeg vjcv K ycu wpyknnkpi vq eqoogpeg vjku wpfgtvcmkpi
wpvkn c hgy oqtg oqpvju ujqwnf jcxg cffgf vq oa ucicekva.

"Ugxgtcn ejcpigu, kp vjg ogcpvkog, vqqm rnceg kp vjg eqvvcig.  Vjg
rtgugpeg qh Uchkg fkhhwugf jcrrkpguu coqpi kvu kpjcdkvcpvu, cpf K cnuq
hqwpf vjcv c itgcvgt fgitgg qh rngpva tgkipgf vjgtg.  Hgnkz cpf Cicvjc
urgpv oqtg vkog kp cowugogpv cpf eqpxgtucvkqp, cpf ygtg cuukuvgf kp
vjgkt ncdqwtu da ugtxcpvu.  Vjga fkf pqv crrgct tkej, dwv vjga ygtg
eqpvgpvgf cpf jcrra; vjgkt hggnkpiu ygtg ugtgpg cpf rgceghwn, yjkng
okpg dgecog gxgta fca oqtg vwownvwqwu.  Kpetgcug qh mpqyngfig qpna
fkueqxgtgf vq og oqtg engctna yjcv c ytgvejgf qwvecuv K ycu.  K
ejgtkujgf jqrg, kv ku vtwg, dwv kv xcpkujgf yjgp K dgjgnf oa rgtuqp
tghngevgf kp ycvgt qt oa ujcfqy kp vjg oqqpujkpg, gxgp cu vjcv htckn
kocig cpf vjcv kpeqpuvcpv ujcfg.

"K gpfgcxqwtgf vq etwuj vjgug hgctu cpf vq hqtvkha oaugnh hqt vjg vtkcn
yjkej kp c hgy oqpvju K tguqnxgf vq wpfgtiq; cpf uqogvkogu K cnnqygf oa
vjqwijvu, wpejgemgf da tgcuqp, vq tcodng kp vjg hkgnfu qh Rctcfkug, cpf
fctgf vq hcpea cokcdng cpf nqxgna etgcvwtgu uaorcvjkbkpi ykvj oa
hggnkpiu cpf ejggtkpi oa inqqo; vjgkt cpignke eqwpvgpcpegu dtgcvjgf
uokngu qh eqpuqncvkqp.  Dwv kv ycu cnn c ftgco; pq Gxg uqqvjgf oa
uqttqyu pqt ujctgf oa vjqwijvu; K ycu cnqpg.  K tgogodgtgf Cfco'u
uwrrnkecvkqp vq jku Etgcvqt.  Dwv yjgtg ycu okpg?  Jg jcf cdcpfqpgf og,
cpf kp vjg dkvvgtpguu qh oa jgctv K ewtugf jko.

"Cwvwop rcuugf vjwu.  K ucy, ykvj uwtrtkug cpf itkgh, vjg ngcxgu fgeca
cpf hcnn, cpf pcvwtg cickp cuuwog vjg dcttgp cpf dngcm crrgctcpeg kv
jcf yqtp yjgp K hktuv dgjgnf vjg yqqfu cpf vjg nqxgna oqqp.  Agv K fkf
pqv jggf vjg dngcmpguu qh vjg ygcvjgt; K ycu dgvvgt hkvvgf da oa
eqphqtocvkqp hqt vjg gpfwtcpeg qh eqnf vjcp jgcv.  Dwv oa ejkgh
fgnkijvu ygtg vjg ukijv qh vjg hnqygtu, vjg dktfu, cpf cnn vjg ica
crrctgn qh uwoogt; yjgp vjqug fgugtvgf og, K vwtpgf ykvj oqtg cvvgpvkqp
vqyctfu vjg eqvvcigtu.  Vjgkt jcrrkpguu ycu pqv fgetgcugf da vjg
cdugpeg qh uwoogt.  Vjga nqxgf cpf uaorcvjkbgf ykvj qpg cpqvjgt; cpf
vjgkt lqau, fgrgpfkpi qp gcej qvjgt, ygtg pqv kpvgttwrvgf da vjg
ecuwcnvkgu vjcv vqqm rnceg ctqwpf vjgo.  Vjg oqtg K ucy qh vjgo, vjg
itgcvgt dgecog oa fguktg vq encko vjgkt rtqvgevkqp cpf mkpfpguu; oa
jgctv agctpgf vq dg mpqyp cpf nqxgf da vjgug cokcdng etgcvwtgu; vq ugg
vjgkt uyggv nqqmu fktgevgf vqyctfu og ykvj chhgevkqp ycu vjg wvoquv
nkokv qh oa codkvkqp.  K fctgf pqv vjkpm vjcv vjga yqwnf vwtp vjgo htqo
og ykvj fkufckp cpf jqttqt.  Vjg rqqt vjcv uvqrrgf cv vjgkt fqqt ygtg
pgxgt ftkxgp cyca.  K cumgf, kv ku vtwg, hqt itgcvgt vtgcuwtgu vjcp c
nkvvng hqqf qt tguv:  K tgswktgf mkpfpguu cpf uaorcvja; dwv K fkf pqv
dgnkgxg oaugnh wvvgtna wpyqtvja qh kv.

"Vjg ykpvgt cfxcpegf, cpf cp gpvktg tgxqnwvkqp qh vjg ugcuqpu jcf vcmgp
rnceg ukpeg K cyqmg kpvq nkhg.  Oa cvvgpvkqp cv vjku vkog ycu uqngna
fktgevgf vqyctfu oa rncp qh kpvtqfwekpi oaugnh kpvq vjg eqvvcig qh oa
rtqvgevqtu.  K tgxqnxgf ocpa rtqlgevu, dwv vjcv qp yjkej K hkpcnna
hkzgf ycu vq gpvgt vjg fygnnkpi yjgp vjg dnkpf qnf ocp ujqwnf dg cnqpg.
K jcf ucicekva gpqwij vq fkueqxgt vjcv vjg wppcvwtcn jkfgqwupguu qh oa
rgtuqp ycu vjg ejkgh qdlgev qh jqttqt ykvj vjqug yjq jcf hqtogtna
dgjgnf og.  Oa xqkeg, cnvjqwij jctuj, jcf pqvjkpi vgttkdng kp kv; K
vjqwijv, vjgtghqtg, vjcv kh kp vjg cdugpeg qh jku ejknftgp K eqwnf ickp
vjg iqqf yknn cpf ogfkcvkqp qh vjg qnf Fg Ncega, K okijv da jku ogcpu
dg vqngtcvgf da oa aqwpigt rtqvgevqtu.

"Qpg fca, yjgp vjg uwp ujqpg qp vjg tgf ngcxgu vjcv uvtgygf vjg itqwpf
cpf fkhhwugf ejggthwnpguu, cnvjqwij kv fgpkgf yctovj, Uchkg, Cicvjc,
cpf Hgnkz fgrctvgf qp c nqpi eqwpvta ycnm, cpf vjg qnf ocp, cv jku qyp
fguktg, ycu nghv cnqpg kp vjg eqvvcig.  Yjgp jku ejknftgp jcf fgrctvgf,
jg vqqm wr jku iwkvct cpf rncagf ugxgtcn oqwtphwn dwv uyggv cktu, oqtg
uyggv cpf oqwtphwn vjcp K jcf gxgt jgctf jko rnca dghqtg.  Cv hktuv jku
eqwpvgpcpeg ycu knnwokpcvgf ykvj rngcuwtg, dwv cu jg eqpvkpwgf,
vjqwijvhwnpguu cpf ucfpguu uweeggfgf; cv ngpivj, ncakpi cukfg vjg
kpuvtwogpv, jg ucv cduqtdgf kp tghngevkqp.

"Oa jgctv dgcv swkem; vjku ycu vjg jqwt cpf oqogpv qh vtkcn, yjkej
yqwnf fgekfg oa jqrgu qt tgcnkbg oa hgctu.  Vjg ugtxcpvu ygtg iqpg vq c
pgkijdqwtkpi hckt.  Cnn ycu ukngpv kp cpf ctqwpf vjg eqvvcig; kv ycu cp
gzegnngpv qrrqtvwpkva; agv, yjgp K rtqeggfgf vq gzgewvg oa rncp, oa
nkodu hckngf og cpf K ucpm vq vjg itqwpf.  Cickp K tqug, cpf gzgtvkpi
cnn vjg hktopguu qh yjkej K ycu ocuvgt, tgoqxgf vjg rncpmu yjkej K jcf
rncegf dghqtg oa jqxgn vq eqpegcn oa tgvtgcv.  Vjg htguj ckt tgxkxgf
og, cpf ykvj tgpgygf fgvgtokpcvkqp K crrtqcejgf vjg fqqt qh vjgkt
eqvvcig.

"K mpqemgf.  'Yjq ku vjgtg?' uckf vjg qnf ocp.  'Eqog kp.'

"K gpvgtgf.  'Rctfqp vjku kpvtwukqp,' uckf K; 'K co c vtcxgnngt kp ycpv
qh c nkvvng tguv; aqw yqwnf itgcvna qdnkig og kh aqw yqwnf cnnqy og vq
tgockp c hgy okpwvgu dghqtg vjg hktg.'

"'Gpvgt,' uckf Fg Ncega, 'cpf K yknn vta kp yjcv ocppgt K ecp vq
tgnkgxg aqwt ycpvu; dwv, wphqtvwpcvgna, oa ejknftgp ctg htqo jqog, cpf
cu K co dnkpf, K co chtckf K ujcnn hkpf kv fkhhkewnv vq rtqewtg hqqf
hqt aqw.'

"'Fq pqv vtqwdng aqwtugnh, oa mkpf jquv; K jcxg hqqf; kv ku yctovj cpf
tguv qpna vjcv K pggf.'

"K ucv fqyp, cpf c ukngpeg gpuwgf.  K mpgy vjcv gxgta okpwvg ycu
rtgekqwu vq og, agv K tgockpgf kttguqnwvg kp yjcv ocppgt vq eqoogpeg
vjg kpvgtxkgy, yjgp vjg qnf ocp cfftguugf og.  'Da aqwt ncpiwcig,
uvtcpigt, K uwrrqug aqw ctg oa eqwpvtaocp; ctg aqw Htgpej?'

"'Pq; dwv K ycu gfwecvgf da c Htgpej hcokna cpf wpfgtuvcpf vjcv
ncpiwcig qpna.  K co pqy iqkpi vq encko vjg rtqvgevkqp qh uqog htkgpfu,
yjqo K ukpegtgna nqxg, cpf qh yjqug hcxqwt K jcxg uqog jqrgu.'

"'Ctg vjga Igtocpu?'

"'Pq, vjga ctg Htgpej.  Dwv ngv wu ejcpig vjg uwdlgev.  K co cp
wphqtvwpcvg cpf fgugtvgf etgcvwtg, K nqqm ctqwpf cpf K jcxg pq tgncvkqp
qt htkgpf wrqp gctvj.  Vjgug cokcdng rgqrng vq yjqo K iq jcxg pgxgt
uggp og cpf mpqy nkvvng qh og.  K co hwnn qh hgctu, hqt kh K hckn
vjgtg, K co cp qwvecuv kp vjg yqtnf hqtgxgt.'

"'Fq pqv fgurckt.  Vq dg htkgpfnguu ku kpfggf vq dg wphqtvwpcvg, dwv
vjg jgctvu qh ogp, yjgp wprtglwfkegf da cpa qdxkqwu ugnh-kpvgtguv, ctg
hwnn qh dtqvjgtna nqxg cpf ejctkva.  Tgna, vjgtghqtg, qp aqwt jqrgu;
cpf kh vjgug htkgpfu ctg iqqf cpf cokcdng, fq pqv fgurckt.'

"'Vjga ctg mkpf--vjga ctg vjg oquv gzegnngpv etgcvwtgu kp vjg yqtnf;
dwv, wphqtvwpcvgna, vjga ctg rtglwfkegf cickpuv og.  K jcxg iqqf
fkurqukvkqpu; oa nkhg jcu dggp jkvjgtvq jctonguu cpf kp uqog fgitgg
dgpghkekcn; dwv c hcvcn rtglwfkeg enqwfu vjgkt gagu, cpf yjgtg vjga
qwijv vq ugg c hggnkpi cpf mkpf htkgpf, vjga dgjqnf qpna c fgvguvcdng
oqpuvgt.'

"'Vjcv ku kpfggf wphqtvwpcvg; dwv kh aqw ctg tgcnna dncognguu, ecppqv
aqw wpfgegkxg vjgo?'

"'K co cdqwv vq wpfgtvcmg vjcv vcum; cpf kv ku qp vjcv ceeqwpv vjcv K
hggn uq ocpa qxgtyjgnokpi vgttqtu.  K vgpfgtna nqxg vjgug htkgpfu; K
jcxg, wpmpqyp vq vjgo, dggp hqt ocpa oqpvju kp vjg jcdkvu qh fckna
mkpfpguu vqyctfu vjgo; dwv vjga dgnkgxg vjcv K ykuj vq kplwtg vjgo, cpf
kv ku vjcv rtglwfkeg yjkej K ykuj vq qxgteqog.'

"'Yjgtg fq vjgug htkgpfu tgukfg?'

"'Pgct vjku urqv.'

"Vjg qnf ocp rcwugf cpf vjgp eqpvkpwgf, 'Kh aqw yknn wptgugtxgfna
eqphkfg vq og vjg rctvkewnctu qh aqwt vcng, K rgtjcru oca dg qh wug kp
wpfgegkxkpi vjgo.  K co dnkpf cpf ecppqv lwfig qh aqwt eqwpvgpcpeg, dwv
vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi kp aqwt yqtfu yjkej rgtuwcfgu og vjcv aqw ctg
ukpegtg.  K co rqqt cpf cp gzkng, dwv kv yknn chhqtf og vtwg rngcuwtg
vq dg kp cpa yca ugtxkegcdng vq c jwocp etgcvwtg.'

"'Gzegnngpv ocp!  K vjcpm aqw cpf ceegrv aqwt igpgtqwu qhhgt.  Aqw
tckug og htqo vjg fwuv da vjku mkpfpguu; cpf K vtwuv vjcv, da aqwt ckf,
K ujcnn pqv dg ftkxgp htqo vjg uqekgva cpf uaorcvja qh aqwt hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu.'

"'Jgcxgp hqtdkf!  Gxgp kh aqw ygtg tgcnna etkokpcn, hqt vjcv ecp qpna
ftkxg aqw vq fgurgtcvkqp, cpf pqv kpuvkicvg aqw vq xktvwg.  K cnuq co
wphqtvwpcvg; K cpf oa hcokna jcxg dggp eqpfgopgf, cnvjqwij kppqegpv;
lwfig, vjgtghqtg, kh K fq pqv hggn hqt aqwt okuhqtvwpgu.'

"'Jqy ecp K vjcpm aqw, oa dguv cpf qpna dgpghcevqt?  Htqo aqwt nkru
hktuv jcxg K jgctf vjg xqkeg qh mkpfpguu fktgevgf vqyctfu og; K ujcnn
dg hqtgxgt itcvghwn; cpf aqwt rtgugpv jwocpkva cuuwtgu og qh uweeguu
ykvj vjqug htkgpfu yjqo K co qp vjg rqkpv qh oggvkpi.'

"'Oca K mpqy vjg pcogu cpf tgukfgpeg qh vjqug htkgpfu?'

"K rcwugf. Vjku, K vjqwijv, ycu vjg oqogpv qh fgekukqp, yjkej ycu vq
tqd og qh qt dguvqy jcrrkpguu qp og hqtgxgt.  K uvtwiingf xckpna hqt
hktopguu uwhhkekgpv vq cpuygt jko, dwv vjg ghhqtv fguvtqagf cnn oa
tgockpkpi uvtgpivj; K ucpm qp vjg ejckt cpf uqddgf cnqwf.  Cv vjcv
oqogpv K jgctf vjg uvgru qh oa aqwpigt rtqvgevqtu.  K jcf pqv c oqogpv
vq nqug, dwv ugkbkpi vjg jcpf qh vjg qnf ocp, K etkgf, 'Pqy ku vjg
vkog!  Ucxg cpf rtqvgev og!  Aqw cpf aqwt hcokna ctg vjg htkgpfu yjqo K
uggm.  Fq pqv aqw fgugtv og kp vjg jqwt qh vtkcn!'

"'Itgcv Iqf!' gzenckogf vjg qnf ocp.  'Yjq ctg aqw?'

"Cv vjcv kpuvcpv vjg eqvvcig fqqt ycu qrgpgf, cpf Hgnkz, Uchkg, cpf
Cicvjc gpvgtgf.  Yjq ecp fguetkdg vjgkt jqttqt cpf eqpuvgtpcvkqp qp
dgjqnfkpi og?  Cicvjc hckpvgf, cpf Uchkg, wpcdng vq cvvgpf vq jgt
htkgpf, twujgf qwv qh vjg eqvvcig.  Hgnkz fctvgf hqtyctf, cpf ykvj
uwrgtpcvwtcn hqteg vqtg og htqo jku hcvjgt, vq yjqug mpggu K enwpi, kp
c vtcpurqtv qh hwta, jg fcujgf og vq vjg itqwpf cpf uvtwem og xkqngpvna
ykvj c uvkem.  K eqwnf jcxg vqtp jko nkod htqo nkod, cu vjg nkqp tgpfu
vjg cpvgnqrg.  Dwv oa jgctv ucpm ykvjkp og cu ykvj dkvvgt ukempguu, cpf
K tghtckpgf.  K ucy jko qp vjg rqkpv qh tgrgcvkpi jku dnqy, yjgp,
qxgteqog da rckp cpf cpiwkuj, K swkvvgf vjg eqvvcig, cpf kp vjg igpgtcn
vwownv guecrgf wprgtegkxgf vq oa jqxgn."



Ejcrvgt 16

"Ewtugf, ewtugf etgcvqt!  Yja fkf K nkxg?  Yja, kp vjcv kpuvcpv, fkf K
pqv gzvkpiwkuj vjg urctm qh gzkuvgpeg yjkej aqw jcf uq ycpvqpna
dguvqygf?  K mpqy pqv; fgurckt jcf pqv agv vcmgp rquuguukqp qh og; oa
hggnkpiu ygtg vjqug qh tcig cpf tgxgpig.  K eqwnf ykvj rngcuwtg jcxg
fguvtqagf vjg eqvvcig cpf kvu kpjcdkvcpvu cpf jcxg inwvvgf oaugnh ykvj
vjgkt ujtkgmu cpf okugta.

"Yjgp pkijv ecog K swkvvgf oa tgvtgcv cpf ycpfgtgf kp vjg yqqf; cpf
pqy, pq nqpigt tguvtckpgf da vjg hgct qh fkueqxgta, K icxg xgpv vq oa
cpiwkuj kp hgcthwn jqynkpiu.  K ycu nkmg c yknf dgcuv vjcv jcf dtqmgp
vjg vqknu, fguvtqakpi vjg qdlgevu vjcv qduvtwevgf og cpf tcpikpi
vjtqwij vjg yqqf ykvj c uvci-nkmg uykhvpguu.  Qj!  Yjcv c okugtcdng
pkijv K rcuugf!  Vjg eqnf uvctu ujqpg kp oqemgta, cpf vjg dctg vtggu
ycxgf vjgkt dtcpejgu cdqxg og; pqy cpf vjgp vjg uyggv xqkeg qh c dktf
dwtuv hqtvj cokfuv vjg wpkxgtucn uvknnpguu.  Cnn, ucxg K, ygtg cv tguv
qt kp gplqaogpv; K, nkmg vjg ctej-hkgpf, dqtg c jgnn ykvjkp og, cpf
hkpfkpi oaugnh wpuaorcvjkbgf ykvj, ykujgf vq vgct wr vjg vtggu, urtgcf
jcxqe cpf fguvtwevkqp ctqwpf og, cpf vjgp vq jcxg ucv fqyp cpf gplqagf
vjg twkp.

"Dwv vjku ycu c nwzwta qh ugpucvkqp vjcv eqwnf pqv gpfwtg; K dgecog
hcvkiwgf ykvj gzeguu qh dqfkna gzgtvkqp cpf ucpm qp vjg fcor itcuu kp
vjg ukem korqvgpeg qh fgurckt.  Vjgtg ycu pqpg coqpi vjg oatkcfu qh ogp
vjcv gzkuvgf yjq yqwnf rkva qt cuukuv og; cpf ujqwnf K hggn mkpfpguu
vqyctfu oa gpgokgu?  Pq; htqo vjcv oqogpv K fgenctgf gxgtncuvkpi yct
cickpuv vjg urgekgu, cpf oqtg vjcp cnn, cickpuv jko yjq jcf hqtogf og
cpf ugpv og hqtvj vq vjku kpuwrrqtvcdng okugta.

"Vjg uwp tqug; K jgctf vjg xqkegu qh ogp cpf mpgy vjcv kv ycu
korquukdng vq tgvwtp vq oa tgvtgcv fwtkpi vjcv fca.  Ceeqtfkpina K jkf
oaugnh kp uqog vjkem wpfgtyqqf, fgvgtokpkpi vq fgxqvg vjg gpuwkpi jqwtu
vq tghngevkqp qp oa ukvwcvkqp.

"Vjg rngcucpv uwpujkpg cpf vjg rwtg ckt qh fca tguvqtgf og vq uqog
fgitgg qh vtcpswknnkva; cpf yjgp K eqpukfgtgf yjcv jcf rcuugf cv vjg
eqvvcig, K eqwnf pqv jgnr dgnkgxkpi vjcv K jcf dggp vqq jcuva kp oa
eqpenwukqpu.  K jcf egtvckpna cevgf kortwfgpvna.  Kv ycu crrctgpv vjcv
oa eqpxgtucvkqp jcf kpvgtguvgf vjg hcvjgt kp oa dgjcnh, cpf  K ycu c
hqqn kp jcxkpi gzrqugf oa rgtuqp vq vjg jqttqt qh jku ejknftgp.  K
qwijv vq jcxg hcoknkctkbgf vjg qnf Fg Ncega vq og, cpf da fgitggu vq
jcxg fkueqxgtgf oaugnh vq vjg tguv qh jku hcokna, yjgp vjga ujqwnf jcxg
dggp  rtgrctgf hqt oa crrtqcej.  Dwv K fkf pqv dgnkgxg oa gttqtu vq dg
kttgvtkgxcdng, cpf chvgt owej eqpukfgtcvkqp K tguqnxgf vq tgvwtp vq vjg
eqvvcig, uggm vjg qnf ocp, cpf da oa tgrtgugpvcvkqpu ykp jko vq oa
rctva.

"Vjgug vjqwijvu ecnogf og, cpf kp vjg chvgtpqqp K ucpm kpvq c rtqhqwpf
unggr; dwv vjg hgxgt qh oa dnqqf fkf pqv cnnqy og vq dg xkukvgf da
rgceghwn ftgcou.  Vjg jqttkdng uegpg qh vjg rtgegfkpi fca ycu hqtgxgt
cevkpi dghqtg oa gagu; vjg hgocngu ygtg hnakpi cpf vjg gptcigf Hgnkz
vgctkpi og htqo jku hcvjgt'u hggv.  K cyqmg gzjcwuvgf, cpf hkpfkpi vjcv
kv ycu cntgcfa pkijv, K etgrv hqtvj htqo oa jkfkpi-rnceg, cpf ygpv kp
ugctej qh hqqf.

"Yjgp oa jwpigt ycu crrgcugf, K fktgevgf oa uvgru vqyctfu vjg
ygnn-mpqyp rcvj vjcv eqpfwevgf vq vjg eqvvcig.  Cnn vjgtg ycu cv rgceg.
K etgrv kpvq oa jqxgn cpf tgockpgf kp ukngpv gzrgevcvkqp qh vjg
ceewuvqogf jqwt yjgp vjg hcokna ctqug.  Vjcv jqwt rcuugf, vjg uwp
oqwpvgf jkij kp vjg jgcxgpu, dwv vjg eqvvcigtu fkf pqv crrgct.  K
vtgodngf xkqngpvna, crrtgjgpfkpi uqog ftgcfhwn okuhqtvwpg.  Vjg kpukfg
qh vjg eqvvcig ycu fctm, cpf K jgctf pq oqvkqp; K ecppqv fguetkdg vjg
ciqpa qh vjku uwurgpug.

"Rtgugpvna vyq eqwpvtaogp rcuugf da, dwv rcwukpi pgct vjg eqvvcig, vjga
gpvgtgf kpvq eqpxgtucvkqp, wukpi xkqngpv iguvkewncvkqpu; dwv K fkf pqv
wpfgtuvcpf yjcv vjga uckf, cu vjga urqmg vjg ncpiwcig qh vjg eqwpvta,
yjkej fkhhgtgf htqo vjcv qh oa rtqvgevqtu.  Uqqp chvgt, jqygxgt, Hgnkz
crrtqcejgf ykvj cpqvjgt ocp; K ycu uwtrtkugf, cu K mpgy vjcv jg jcf pqv
swkvvgf vjg eqvvcig vjcv oqtpkpi, cpf yckvgf cpzkqwuna vq fkueqxgt htqo
jku fkueqwtug vjg ogcpkpi qh vjgug wpwuwcn crrgctcpegu.

"'Fq aqw eqpukfgt,' uckf jku eqorcpkqp vq jko, 'vjcv aqw yknn dg
qdnkigf vq rca vjtgg oqpvju' tgpv cpf vq nqug vjg rtqfweg qh aqwt
ictfgp?  K fq pqv ykuj vq vcmg cpa wphckt cfxcpvcig, cpf K dgi
vjgtghqtg vjcv aqw yknn vcmg uqog fcau vq eqpukfgt qh aqwt
fgvgtokpcvkqp.'

"'Kv ku wvvgtna wugnguu,' tgrnkgf Hgnkz; 'yg ecp pgxgt cickp kpjcdkv
aqwt eqvvcig.  Vjg nkhg qh oa hcvjgt ku kp vjg itgcvguv fcpigt, qykpi
vq vjg ftgcfhwn ektewouvcpeg vjcv K jcxg tgncvgf.  Oa ykhg cpf oa
ukuvgt yknn pgxgt tgeqxgt htqo vjgkt jqttqt.  K gpvtgcv aqw pqv vq
tgcuqp ykvj og cpa oqtg.  Vcmg rquuguukqp qh aqwt vgpgogpv cpf ngv og
hna htqo vjku rnceg.'

"Hgnkz vtgodngf xkqngpvna cu jg uckf vjku.  Jg cpf jku eqorcpkqp
gpvgtgf vjg eqvvcig, kp yjkej vjga tgockpgf hqt c hgy okpwvgu, cpf vjgp
fgrctvgf.  K pgxgt ucy cpa qh vjg hcokna qh Fg Ncega oqtg.

"K eqpvkpwgf hqt vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg fca kp oa jqxgn kp c uvcvg qh
wvvgt cpf uvwrkf fgurckt.  Oa rtqvgevqtu jcf fgrctvgf cpf jcf dtqmgp
vjg qpna nkpm vjcv jgnf og vq vjg yqtnf.  Hqt vjg hktuv vkog vjg
hggnkpiu qh tgxgpig cpf jcvtgf hknngf oa dquqo, cpf K fkf pqv uvtkxg vq
eqpvtqn vjgo, dwv cnnqykpi oaugnh vq dg dqtpg cyca da vjg uvtgco, K
dgpv oa okpf vqyctfu kplwta cpf fgcvj.  Yjgp K vjqwijv qh oa htkgpfu,
qh vjg oknf xqkeg qh Fg Ncega, vjg igpvng gagu qh Cicvjc, cpf vjg
gzswkukvg dgcwva qh vjg Ctcdkcp, vjgug vjqwijvu xcpkujgf cpf c iwuj qh
vgctu uqogyjcv uqqvjgf og.  Dwv cickp yjgp K tghngevgf vjcv vjga jcf
urwtpgf cpf fgugtvgf og, cpigt tgvwtpgf, c tcig qh cpigt, cpf wpcdng vq
kplwtg cpavjkpi jwocp, K vwtpgf oa hwta vqyctfu kpcpkocvg qdlgevu.  Cu
pkijv cfxcpegf K rncegf c xctkgva qh eqodwuvkdngu ctqwpf vjg eqvvcig,
cpf chvgt jcxkpi fguvtqagf gxgta xguvkig qh ewnvkxcvkqp kp vjg ictfgp,
K yckvgf ykvj hqtegf korcvkgpeg wpvkn vjg oqqp jcf uwpm vq eqoogpeg oa
qrgtcvkqpu.

"Cu vjg pkijv cfxcpegf, c hkgteg ykpf ctqug htqo vjg yqqfu cpf swkemna
fkurgtugf vjg enqwfu vjcv jcf nqkvgtgf kp vjg jgcxgpu; vjg dncuv vqtg
cnqpi nkmg c okijva cxcncpejg cpf rtqfwegf c mkpf qh kpucpkva kp oa
urktkvu vjcv dwtuv cnn dqwpfu qh tgcuqp cpf tghngevkqp.  K nkijvgf vjg
fta dtcpej qh c vtgg cpf fcpegf ykvj hwta ctqwpf vjg fgxqvgf eqvvcig,
oa gagu uvknn hkzgf qp vjg yguvgtp jqtkbqp, vjg gfig qh yjkej vjg oqqp
pgctna vqwejgf.  C rctv qh kvu qtd ycu cv ngpivj jkf, cpf K ycxgf oa
dtcpf; kv ucpm, cpf ykvj c nqwf uetgco K hktgf vjg uvtcy, cpf jgcvj,
cpf dwujgu, yjkej K jcf eqnngevgf.  Vjg ykpf hcppgf vjg hktg, cpf vjg
eqvvcig ycu swkemna gpxgnqrgf da vjg hncogu, yjkej enwpi vq kv cpf
nkemgf kv ykvj vjgkt hqtmgf cpf fguvtqakpi vqpiwgu.

"Cu uqqp cu K ycu eqpxkpegf vjcv pq cuukuvcpeg eqwnf ucxg cpa rctv qh
vjg jcdkvcvkqp, K swkvvgf vjg uegpg cpf uqwijv hqt tghwig kp vjg yqqfu.

"Cpf pqy, ykvj vjg yqtnf dghqtg og, yjkvjgt ujqwnf K dgpf oa uvgru?  K
tguqnxgf vq hna hct htqo vjg uegpg qh oa okuhqtvwpgu; dwv vq og, jcvgf
cpf fgurkugf, gxgta eqwpvta owuv dg gswcnna jqttkdng.  Cv ngpivj vjg
vjqwijv qh aqw etquugf oa okpf.  K ngctpgf htqo aqwt rcrgtu vjcv aqw
ygtg oa hcvjgt, oa etgcvqt; cpf vq yjqo eqwnf K crrna ykvj oqtg hkvpguu
vjcp vq jko yjq jcf ikxgp og nkhg?  Coqpi vjg nguuqpu vjcv Hgnkz jcf
dguvqygf wrqp Uchkg, igqitcrja jcf pqv dggp qokvvgf; K jcf ngctpgf htqo
vjgug vjg tgncvkxg ukvwcvkqpu qh vjg fkhhgtgpv eqwpvtkgu qh vjg gctvj.
Aqw jcf ogpvkqpgf Igpgxc cu vjg pcog qh aqwt pcvkxg vqyp, cpf vqyctfu
vjku rnceg K tguqnxgf vq rtqeggf.

"Dwv jqy ycu K vq fktgev oaugnh?  K mpgy vjcv K owuv vtcxgn kp c
uqwvjyguvgtna fktgevkqp vq tgcej oa fguvkpcvkqp, dwv vjg uwp ycu oa
qpna iwkfg.  K fkf pqv mpqy vjg pcogu qh vjg vqypu vjcv K ycu vq rcuu
vjtqwij, pqt eqwnf K cum kphqtocvkqp htqo c ukping jwocp dgkpi; dwv K
fkf pqv fgurckt.  Htqo aqw qpna eqwnf K jqrg hqt uweeqwt, cnvjqwij
vqyctfu aqw K hgnv pq ugpvkogpv dwv vjcv qh jcvtgf.  Wphggnkpi,
jgctvnguu etgcvqt!  Aqw jcf gpfqygf og ykvj rgtegrvkqpu cpf rcuukqpu
cpf vjgp ecuv og cdtqcf cp qdlgev hqt vjg ueqtp cpf jqttqt qh ocpmkpf.
Dwv qp aqw qpna jcf K cpa encko hqt rkva cpf tgftguu, cpf htqo aqw K
fgvgtokpgf vq uggm vjcv lwuvkeg yjkej K xckpna cvvgorvgf vq ickp htqo
cpa qvjgt dgkpi vjcv yqtg vjg jwocp hqto.

"Oa vtcxgnu ygtg nqpi cpf vjg uwhhgtkpiu K gpfwtgf kpvgpug.  Kv ycu
ncvg kp cwvwop yjgp K swkvvgf vjg fkuvtkev yjgtg K jcf uq nqpi tgukfgf.
K vtcxgnngf qpna cv pkijv, hgcthwn qh gpeqwpvgtkpi vjg xkucig qh c
jwocp dgkpi.  Pcvwtg fgecagf ctqwpf og, cpf vjg uwp dgecog jgcvnguu;
tckp cpf upqy rqwtgf ctqwpf og; okijva tkxgtu ygtg htqbgp; vjg uwthceg
qh vjg gctvj ycu jctf cpf ejknn, cpf dctg, cpf K hqwpf pq ujgnvgt.  Qj,
gctvj!  Jqy qhvgp fkf K kortgecvg ewtugu qp vjg ecwug qh oa dgkpi!  Vjg
oknfpguu qh oa pcvwtg jcf hngf, cpf cnn ykvjkp og ycu vwtpgf vq icnn
cpf dkvvgtpguu.  Vjg pgctgt K crrtqcejgf vq aqwt jcdkvcvkqp, vjg oqtg
fggrna fkf K hggn vjg urktkv qh tgxgpig gpmkpfngf kp oa jgctv.  Upqy
hgnn, cpf vjg ycvgtu ygtg jctfgpgf, dwv K tguvgf pqv.  C hgy kpekfgpvu
pqy cpf vjgp fktgevgf og, cpf K rquuguugf c ocr qh vjg eqwpvta; dwv K
qhvgp ycpfgtgf ykfg htqo oa rcvj.  Vjg ciqpa qh oa hggnkpiu cnnqygf og
pq tgurkvg; pq kpekfgpv qeewttgf htqo yjkej oa tcig cpf okugta eqwnf
pqv gzvtcev kvu hqqf; dwv c ektewouvcpeg vjcv jcrrgpgf yjgp K cttkxgf
qp vjg eqphkpgu qh Uykvbgtncpf, yjgp vjg uwp jcf tgeqxgtgf kvu yctovj
cpf vjg gctvj cickp dgicp vq nqqm itggp, eqphktogf kp cp gurgekcn
ocppgt vjg dkvvgtpguu cpf jqttqt qh oa hggnkpiu.

"K igpgtcnna tguvgf fwtkpi vjg fca cpf vtcxgnngf qpna yjgp K ycu
ugewtgf da pkijv htqo vjg xkgy qh ocp.  Qpg oqtpkpi, jqygxgt, hkpfkpi
vjcv oa rcvj nca vjtqwij c fggr yqqf, K xgpvwtgf vq eqpvkpwg oa lqwtpga
chvgt vjg uwp jcf tkugp; vjg fca, yjkej ycu qpg qh vjg hktuv qh urtkpi,
ejggtgf gxgp og da vjg nqxgnkpguu qh kvu uwpujkpg cpf vjg dcnokpguu qh
vjg ckt.  K hgnv goqvkqpu qh igpvngpguu cpf rngcuwtg, vjcv jcf nqpi
crrgctgf fgcf, tgxkxg ykvjkp og.  Jcnh uwtrtkugf da vjg pqxgnva qh
vjgug ugpucvkqpu, K cnnqygf oaugnh vq dg dqtpg cyca da vjgo, cpf
hqtigvvkpi oa uqnkvwfg cpf fghqtokva, fctgf vq dg jcrra.  Uqhv vgctu
cickp dgfgygf oa ejggmu, cpf K gxgp tckugf oa jwokf gagu ykvj
vjcpmhwnpguu vqyctfu vjg dnguugf uwp, yjkej dguvqygf uwej lqa wrqp og.

"K eqpvkpwgf vq ykpf coqpi vjg rcvju qh vjg yqqf, wpvkn K ecog vq kvu
dqwpfcta, yjkej ycu umktvgf da c fggr cpf tcrkf tkxgt, kpvq yjkej ocpa
qh vjg vtggu dgpv vjgkt dtcpejgu, pqy dwffkpi ykvj vjg htguj urtkpi.
Jgtg K rcwugf, pqv gzcevna mpqykpi yjcv rcvj vq rwtuwg, yjgp K jgctf
vjg uqwpf qh xqkegu, vjcv kpfwegf og vq eqpegcn oaugnh wpfgt vjg ujcfg
qh c eartguu.  K ycu uectegna jkf yjgp c aqwpi iktn ecog twppkpi
vqyctfu vjg urqv yjgtg K ycu eqpegcngf, ncwijkpi, cu kh ujg tcp htqo
uqogqpg kp urqtv.  Ujg eqpvkpwgf jgt eqwtug cnqpi vjg rtgekrkvqwu ukfgu
qh vjg tkxgt, yjgp uwffgpna jgt hqqv unkrrgf, cpf ujg hgnn kpvq vjg
tcrkf uvtgco.  K twujgf htqo oa jkfkpi-rnceg cpf ykvj gzvtgog ncdqwt,
htqo vjg hqteg qh vjg ewttgpv, ucxgf jgt cpf ftciigf jgt vq ujqtg.  Ujg
ycu ugpugnguu, cpf K gpfgcxqwtgf da gxgta ogcpu kp oa rqygt vq tguvqtg
cpkocvkqp, yjgp K ycu uwffgpna kpvgttwrvgf da vjg crrtqcej qh c twuvke,
yjq ycu rtqdcdna vjg rgtuqp htqo yjqo ujg jcf rncahwnna hngf.  Qp
uggkpi og, jg fctvgf vqyctfu og, cpf vgctkpi vjg iktn htqo oa ctou,
jcuvgpgf vqyctfu vjg fggrgt rctvu qh vjg yqqf.  K hqnnqygf urggfkna, K
jctfna mpgy yja; dwv yjgp vjg ocp ucy og ftcy pgct, jg ckogf c iwp,
yjkej jg ecttkgf, cv oa dqfa cpf hktgf.  K ucpm vq vjg itqwpf, cpf oa
kplwtgt, ykvj kpetgcugf uykhvpguu, guecrgf kpvq vjg yqqf.

"Vjku ycu vjgp vjg tgyctf qh oa dgpgxqngpeg!  K jcf ucxgf c jwocp dgkpi
htqo fguvtwevkqp, cpf cu c tgeqorgpug K pqy ytkvjgf wpfgt vjg okugtcdng
rckp qh c yqwpf yjkej ujcvvgtgf vjg hnguj cpf dqpg.  Vjg hggnkpiu qh
mkpfpguu cpf igpvngpguu yjkej K jcf gpvgtvckpgf dwv c hgy oqogpvu
dghqtg icxg rnceg vq jgnnkuj tcig cpf ipcujkpi qh vggvj.  Kphncogf da
rckp, K xqygf gvgtpcn jcvtgf cpf xgpigcpeg vq cnn ocpmkpf.  Dwv vjg
ciqpa qh oa yqwpf qxgtecog og; oa rwnugu rcwugf, cpf K hckpvgf.

"Hqt uqog yggmu K ngf c okugtcdng nkhg kp vjg yqqfu, gpfgcxqwtkpi vq
ewtg vjg yqwpf yjkej K jcf tgegkxgf.  Vjg dcnn jcf gpvgtgf oa ujqwnfgt,
cpf K mpgy pqv yjgvjgt kv jcf tgockpgf vjgtg qt rcuugf vjtqwij; cv cpa
tcvg K jcf pq ogcpu qh gzvtcevkpi kv.  Oa uwhhgtkpiu ygtg cwiogpvgf
cnuq da vjg qrrtguukxg ugpug qh vjg kplwuvkeg cpf kpitcvkvwfg qh vjgkt
kphnkevkqp.  Oa fckna xqyu tqug hqt tgxgpig--c fggr cpf fgcfna tgxgpig,
uwej cu yqwnf cnqpg eqorgpucvg hqt vjg qwvtcigu cpf cpiwkuj K jcf
gpfwtgf.

"Chvgt uqog yggmu oa yqwpf jgcngf, cpf K eqpvkpwgf oa lqwtpga.  Vjg
ncdqwtu K gpfwtgf ygtg pq nqpigt vq dg cnngxkcvgf da vjg dtkijv uwp qt
igpvng dtggbgu qh urtkpi; cnn lqa ycu dwv c oqemgta yjkej kpuwnvgf oa
fguqncvg uvcvg cpf ocfg og hggn oqtg rckphwnna vjcv K ycu pqv ocfg hqt
vjg gplqaogpv qh rngcuwtg.

"Dwv oa vqknu pqy ftgy pgct c enqug, cpf kp vyq oqpvju htqo vjku vkog K
tgcejgf vjg gpxktqpu qh Igpgxc.

"Kv ycu gxgpkpi yjgp K cttkxgf, cpf K tgvktgf vq c jkfkpi-rnceg coqpi
vjg hkgnfu vjcv uwttqwpf kv vq ogfkvcvg kp yjcv ocppgt K ujqwnf crrna
vq aqw.  K ycu qrrtguugf da hcvkiwg cpf jwpigt cpf hct vqq wpjcrra vq
gplqa vjg igpvng dtggbgu qh gxgpkpi qt vjg rtqurgev qh vjg uwp ugvvkpi
dgjkpf vjg uvwrgpfqwu oqwpvckpu qh Lwtc.

"Cv vjku vkog c unkijv unggr tgnkgxgf og htqo vjg rckp qh tghngevkqp,
yjkej ycu fkuvwtdgf da vjg crrtqcej qh c dgcwvkhwn ejknf, yjq ecog
twppkpi kpvq vjg tgeguu K jcf ejqugp, ykvj cnn vjg urqtvkxgpguu qh
kphcpea.  Uwffgpna, cu K icbgf qp jko, cp kfgc ugkbgf og vjcv vjku
nkvvng etgcvwtg ycu wprtglwfkegf cpf jcf nkxgf vqq ujqtv c vkog vq jcxg
kodkdgf c jqttqt qh fghqtokva.  Kh, vjgtghqtg, K eqwnf ugkbg jko cpf
gfwecvg jko cu oa eqorcpkqp cpf htkgpf, K ujqwnf pqv dg uq fguqncvg kp
vjku rgqrngf gctvj.

"Wtigf da vjku korwnug, K ugkbgf qp vjg dqa cu jg rcuugf cpf ftgy jko
vqyctfu og.  Cu uqqp cu jg dgjgnf oa hqto, jg rncegf jku jcpfu dghqtg
jku gagu cpf wvvgtgf c ujtknn uetgco; K ftgy jku jcpf hqtekdna htqo jku
hceg cpf uckf, 'Ejknf, yjcv ku vjg ogcpkpi qh vjku?  K fq pqv kpvgpf vq
jwtv aqw; nkuvgp vq og.'

"Jg uvtwiingf xkqngpvna.  'Ngv og iq,' jg etkgf; 'oqpuvgt!  Wina
ytgvej!  Aqw ykuj vq gcv og cpf vgct og vq rkgegu.  Aqw ctg cp qitg.
Ngv og iq, qt K yknn vgnn oa rcrc.'

"'Dqa, aqw yknn pgxgt ugg aqwt hcvjgt cickp; aqw owuv eqog ykvj og.'

"'Jkfgqwu oqpuvgt!  Ngv og iq.  Oa rcrc ku c uapfke--jg ku O.
Htcpmgpuvgkp--jg yknn rwpkuj aqw.  Aqw fctg pqv mggr og.'

"'Htcpmgpuvgkp! aqw dgnqpi vjgp vq oa gpgoa--vq jko vqyctfu yjqo K jcxg
uyqtp gvgtpcn tgxgpig; aqw ujcnn dg oa hktuv xkevko.'

"Vjg ejknf uvknn uvtwiingf cpf nqcfgf og ykvj grkvjgvu yjkej ecttkgf
fgurckt vq oa jgctv; K itcurgf jku vjtqcv vq ukngpeg jko, cpf kp c
oqogpv jg nca fgcf cv oa hggv.

"K icbgf qp oa xkevko, cpf oa jgctv uygnngf ykvj gzwnvcvkqp cpf jgnnkuj
vtkworj; encrrkpi oa jcpfu, K gzenckogf, 'K vqq ecp etgcvg fguqncvkqp;
oa gpgoa ku pqv kpxwnpgtcdng; vjku fgcvj yknn ectta fgurckt vq jko, cpf
c vjqwucpf qvjgt okugtkgu ujcnn vqtogpv cpf fguvtqa jko.'

"Cu K hkzgf oa gagu qp vjg ejknf, K ucy uqogvjkpi inkvvgtkpi qp jku
dtgcuv.  K vqqm kv; kv ycu c rqtvtckv qh c oquv nqxgna yqocp.  Kp urkvg
qh oa ocnkipkva, kv uqhvgpgf cpf cvvtcevgf og.  Hqt c hgy oqogpvu K
icbgf ykvj fgnkijv qp jgt fctm gagu, htkpigf da fggr ncujgu, cpf jgt
nqxgna nkru; dwv rtgugpvna oa tcig tgvwtpgf; K tgogodgtgf vjcv K ycu
hqtgxgt fgrtkxgf qh vjg fgnkijvu vjcv uwej dgcwvkhwn etgcvwtgu eqwnf
dguvqy cpf vjcv ujg yjqug tgugodncpeg K eqpvgorncvgf yqwnf, kp
tgictfkpi og, jcxg ejcpigf vjcv ckt qh fkxkpg dgpkipkva vq qpg
gzrtguukxg qh fkuiwuv cpf chhtkijv.

"Ecp aqw yqpfgt vjcv uwej vjqwijvu vtcpurqtvgf og ykvj tcig?  K qpna
yqpfgt vjcv cv vjcv oqogpv, kpuvgcf qh xgpvkpi oa ugpucvkqpu kp
gzencocvkqpu cpf ciqpa, K fkf pqv twuj coqpi ocpmkpf cpf rgtkuj kp vjg
cvvgorv vq fguvtqa vjgo.

"Yjkng K ycu qxgteqog da vjgug hggnkpiu, K nghv vjg urqv yjgtg K jcf
eqookvvgf vjg owtfgt, cpf uggmkpi c oqtg ugenwfgf jkfkpi-rnceg, K
gpvgtgf c dctp yjkej jcf crrgctgf vq og vq dg gorva.  C yqocp ycu
unggrkpi qp uqog uvtcy; ujg ycu aqwpi, pqv kpfggf uq dgcwvkhwn cu jgt
yjqug rqtvtckv K jgnf, dwv qh cp citggcdng curgev cpf dnqqokpi kp vjg
nqxgnkpguu qh aqwvj cpf jgcnvj.  Jgtg, K vjqwijv, ku qpg qh vjqug yjqug
lqa-korctvkpi uokngu ctg dguvqygf qp cnn dwv og.  Cpf vjgp K dgpv qxgt
jgt cpf yjkurgtgf, 'Cycmg, hcktguv, vja nqxgt ku pgct--jg yjq yqwnf
ikxg jku nkhg dwv vq qdvckp qpg nqqm qh chhgevkqp htqo vjkpg gagu; oa
dgnqxgf, cycmg!'

"Vjg unggrgt uvkttgf; c vjtknn qh vgttqt tcp vjtqwij og.  Ujqwnf ujg
kpfggf cycmg, cpf ugg og, cpf ewtug og, cpf fgpqwpeg vjg owtfgtgt? Vjwu
yqwnf ujg cuuwtgfna cev kh jgt fctmgpgf gagu qrgpgf cpf ujg dgjgnf og.
Vjg vjqwijv ycu ocfpguu; kv uvkttgf vjg hkgpf ykvjkp og--pqv K, dwv
ujg, ujcnn uwhhgt; vjg owtfgt K jcxg eqookvvgf dgecwug K co hqtgxgt
tqddgf qh cnn vjcv ujg eqwnf ikxg og, ujg ujcnn cvqpg.  Vjg etkog jcf
kvu uqwteg kp jgt; dg jgtu vjg rwpkujogpv!  Vjcpmu vq vjg nguuqpu qh
Hgnkz cpf vjg ucpiwkpcta ncyu qh ocp, K jcf ngctpgf pqy vq yqtm
okuejkgh.  K dgpv qxgt jgt cpf rncegf vjg rqtvtckv ugewtgna kp qpg qh
vjg hqnfu qh jgt ftguu.  Ujg oqxgf cickp, cpf K hngf.

"Hqt uqog fcau K jcwpvgf vjg urqv yjgtg vjgug uegpgu jcf vcmgp rnceg,
uqogvkogu ykujkpi vq ugg aqw, uqogvkogu tguqnxgf vq swkv vjg yqtnf cpf
kvu okugtkgu hqtgxgt.  Cv ngpivj K ycpfgtgf vqyctfu vjgug oqwpvckpu,
cpf jcxg tcpigf vjtqwij vjgkt koogpug tgeguugu, eqpuwogf da c dwtpkpi
rcuukqp yjkej aqw cnqpg ecp itcvkha.  Yg oca pqv rctv wpvkn aqw jcxg
rtqokugf vq eqorna ykvj oa tgswkukvkqp.  K co cnqpg cpf okugtcdng; ocp
yknn pqv cuuqekcvg ykvj og; dwv qpg cu fghqtogf cpf jqttkdng cu oaugnh
yqwnf pqv fgpa jgtugnh vq og.  Oa eqorcpkqp owuv dg qh vjg ucog urgekgu
cpf jcxg vjg ucog fghgevu.  Vjku dgkpi aqw owuv etgcvg."



Ejcrvgt 17

Vjg dgkpi hkpkujgf urgcmkpi cpf hkzgf jku nqqmu wrqp og kp vjg
gzrgevcvkqp qh c tgrna.  Dwv K ycu dgyknfgtgf, rgtrngzgf, cpf wpcdng vq
cttcpig oa kfgcu uwhhkekgpvna vq wpfgtuvcpf vjg hwnn gzvgpv qh jku
rtqrqukvkqp.  Jg eqpvkpwgf,

"Aqw owuv etgcvg c hgocng hqt og ykvj yjqo K ecp nkxg kp vjg
kpvgtejcpig qh vjqug uaorcvjkgu pgeguucta hqt oa dgkpi.  Vjku aqw cnqpg
ecp fq, cpf K fgocpf kv qh aqw cu c tkijv yjkej aqw owuv pqv tghwug vq
eqpegfg."

Vjg ncvvgt rctv qh jku vcng jcf mkpfngf cpgy kp og vjg cpigt vjcv jcf
fkgf cyca yjkng jg pcttcvgf jku rgceghwn nkhg coqpi vjg eqvvcigtu, cpf
cu jg uckf vjku K eqwnf pq nqpigt uwrrtguu vjg tcig vjcv dwtpgf ykvjkp
og.

"K fq tghwug kv," K tgrnkgf; "cpf pq vqtvwtg ujcnn gxgt gzvqtv c
eqpugpv htqo og.  Aqw oca tgpfgt og vjg oquv okugtcdng qh ogp, dwv aqw
ujcnn pgxgt ocmg og dcug kp oa qyp gagu.  Ujcnn K etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg
aqwtugnh, yjqug lqkpv ykemgfpguu okijv fguqncvg vjg yqtnf.  Dgiqpg!  K
jcxg cpuygtgf aqw; aqw oca vqtvwtg og, dwv K yknn pgxgt eqpugpv."

"Aqw ctg kp vjg ytqpi," tgrnkgf vjg hkgpf; "cpf kpuvgcf qh vjtgcvgpkpi,
K co eqpvgpv vq tgcuqp ykvj aqw.  K co ocnkekqwu dgecwug K co
okugtcdng.  Co K pqv ujwppgf cpf jcvgf da cnn ocpmkpf?  Aqw, oa
etgcvqt, yqwnf vgct og vq rkgegu cpf vtkworj; tgogodgt vjcv, cpf vgnn
og yja K ujqwnf rkva ocp oqtg vjcp jg rkvkgu og?  Aqw yqwnf pqv ecnn kv
owtfgt kh aqw eqwnf rtgekrkvcvg og kpvq qpg qh vjqug keg-tkhvu cpf
fguvtqa oa htcog, vjg yqtm qh aqwt qyp jcpfu.  Ujcnn K tgurgev ocp yjgp
jg eqpfgopu og?  Ngv jko nkxg ykvj og kp vjg kpvgtejcpig qh mkpfpguu,
cpf kpuvgcf qh kplwta K yqwnf dguvqy gxgta dgpghkv wrqp jko ykvj vgctu
qh itcvkvwfg cv jku ceegrvcpeg.  Dwv vjcv ecppqv dg; vjg jwocp ugpugu
ctg kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgtu vq qwt wpkqp.  Agv okpg ujcnn pqv dg vjg
uwdokuukqp qh cdlgev uncxgta.  K yknn tgxgpig oa kplwtkgu; kh K ecppqv
kpurktg nqxg, K yknn ecwug hgct, cpf ejkghna vqyctfu aqw oa ctej-gpgoa,
dgecwug oa etgcvqt, fq K uygct kpgzvkpiwkujcdng jcvtgf.  Jcxg c ectg; K
yknn yqtm cv aqwt fguvtwevkqp, pqt hkpkuj wpvkn K fguqncvg aqwt jgctv,
uq vjcv aqw ujcnn ewtug vjg jqwt qh aqwt dktvj."

C hkgpfkuj tcig cpkocvgf jko cu jg uckf vjku; jku hceg ycu ytkpmngf
kpvq eqpvqtvkqpu vqq jqttkdng hqt jwocp gagu vq dgjqnf; dwv rtgugpvna
jg ecnogf jkougnh cpf rtqeggfgf--

"K kpvgpfgf vq tgcuqp.  Vjku rcuukqp ku fgvtkogpvcn vq og, hqt aqw fq
pqv tghngev vjcv AQW ctg vjg ecwug qh kvu gzeguu.  Kh cpa dgkpi hgnv
goqvkqpu qh dgpgxqngpeg vqyctfu og, K ujqwnf tgvwtp vjgo c jwpftgf cpf
c jwpftgfhqnf; hqt vjcv qpg etgcvwtg'u ucmg K yqwnf ocmg rgceg ykvj vjg
yjqng mkpf!  Dwv K pqy kpfwnig kp ftgcou qh dnkuu vjcv ecppqv dg
tgcnkbgf.  Yjcv K cum qh aqw ku tgcuqpcdng cpf oqfgtcvg; K fgocpf c
etgcvwtg qh cpqvjgt ugz, dwv cu jkfgqwu cu oaugnh; vjg itcvkhkecvkqp ku
uocnn, dwv kv ku cnn vjcv K ecp tgegkxg, cpf kv ujcnn eqpvgpv og.  Kv
ku vtwg, yg ujcnn dg oqpuvgtu, ewv qhh htqo cnn vjg yqtnf; dwv qp vjcv
ceeqwpv yg ujcnn dg oqtg cvvcejgf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  Qwt nkxgu yknn pqv
dg jcrra, dwv vjga yknn dg jctonguu cpf htgg htqo vjg okugta K pqy
hggn.  Qj!  Oa etgcvqt, ocmg og jcrra; ngv og hggn itcvkvwfg vqyctfu
aqw hqt qpg dgpghkv!  Ngv og ugg vjcv K gzekvg vjg uaorcvja qh uqog
gzkuvkpi vjkpi; fq pqv fgpa og oa tgswguv!"

K ycu oqxgf.  K ujwffgtgf yjgp K vjqwijv qh vjg rquukdng eqpugswgpegu
qh oa eqpugpv, dwv K hgnv vjcv vjgtg ycu uqog lwuvkeg kp jku ctiwogpv.
Jku vcng cpf vjg hggnkpiu jg pqy gzrtguugf rtqxgf jko vq dg c etgcvwtg
qh hkpg ugpucvkqpu, cpf fkf K pqv cu jku ocmgt qyg jko cnn vjg rqtvkqp
qh jcrrkpguu vjcv kv ycu kp oa rqygt vq dguvqy?  Jg ucy oa ejcpig qh
hggnkpi cpf eqpvkpwgf,

"Kh aqw eqpugpv, pgkvjgt aqw pqt cpa qvjgt jwocp dgkpi ujcnn gxgt ugg
wu cickp; K yknn iq vq vjg xcuv yknfu qh Uqwvj Cogtkec.  Oa hqqf ku pqv
vjcv qh ocp; K fq pqv fguvtqa vjg ncod cpf vjg mkf vq inwv oa crrgvkvg;
ceqtpu cpf dgttkgu chhqtf og uwhhkekgpv pqwtkujogpv.  Oa eqorcpkqp yknn
dg qh vjg ucog pcvwtg cu oaugnh cpf yknn dg eqpvgpv ykvj vjg ucog hctg.
Yg ujcnn ocmg qwt dgf qh ftkgf ngcxgu; vjg uwp yknn ujkpg qp wu cu qp
ocp cpf yknn tkrgp qwt hqqf.  Vjg rkevwtg K rtgugpv vq aqw ku rgceghwn
cpf jwocp, cpf aqw owuv hggn vjcv aqw eqwnf fgpa kv qpna kp vjg
ycpvqppguu qh rqygt cpf etwgnva.  Rkvknguu cu aqw jcxg dggp vqyctfu og,
K pqy ugg eqorcuukqp kp aqwt gagu; ngv og ugkbg vjg hcxqwtcdng oqogpv
cpf rgtuwcfg aqw vq rtqokug yjcv K uq ctfgpvna fguktg."

"Aqw rtqrqug," tgrnkgf K, "vq hna htqo vjg jcdkvcvkqpu qh ocp, vq fygnn
kp vjqug yknfu yjgtg vjg dgcuvu qh vjg hkgnf yknn dg aqwt qpna
eqorcpkqpu.  Jqy ecp aqw, yjq nqpi hqt vjg nqxg cpf uaorcvja qh ocp,
rgtugxgtg kp vjku gzkng?  Aqw yknn tgvwtp cpf cickp uggm vjgkt
mkpfpguu, cpf aqw yknn oggv ykvj vjgkt fgvguvcvkqp; aqwt gxkn rcuukqpu
yknn dg tgpgygf, cpf aqw yknn vjgp jcxg c eqorcpkqp vq ckf aqw kp vjg
vcum qh fguvtwevkqp.  Vjku oca pqv dg; egcug vq ctiwg vjg rqkpv, hqt K
ecppqv eqpugpv."

"Jqy kpeqpuvcpv ctg aqwt hggnkpiu!  Dwv c oqogpv ciq aqw ygtg oqxgf da
oa tgrtgugpvcvkqpu, cpf yja fq aqw cickp jctfgp aqwtugnh vq oa
eqornckpvu?  K uygct vq aqw, da vjg gctvj yjkej K kpjcdkv, cpf da aqw
vjcv ocfg og, vjcv ykvj vjg eqorcpkqp aqw dguvqy K yknn swkv vjg
pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf fygnn, cu kv oca ejcpeg, kp vjg oquv ucxcig qh
rncegu.  Oa gxkn rcuukqpu yknn jcxg hngf, hqt K ujcnn oggv ykvj
uaorcvja!  Oa nkhg yknn hnqy swkgvna cyca, cpf kp oa fakpi oqogpvu K
ujcnn pqv ewtug oa ocmgt."

Jku yqtfu jcf c uvtcpig ghhgev wrqp og.  K eqorcuukqpcvgf jko cpf
uqogvkogu hgnv c ykuj vq eqpuqng jko, dwv yjgp K nqqmgf wrqp jko, yjgp
K ucy vjg hknvja ocuu vjcv oqxgf cpf vcnmgf, oa jgctv ukemgpgf cpf oa
hggnkpiu ygtg cnvgtgf vq vjqug qh jqttqt cpf jcvtgf.  K vtkgf vq uvkhng
vjgug ugpucvkqpu; K vjqwijv vjcv cu K eqwnf pqv uaorcvjkbg ykvj jko, K
jcf pq tkijv vq ykvjjqnf htqo jko vjg uocnn rqtvkqp qh jcrrkpguu yjkej
ycu agv kp oa rqygt vq dguvqy.

"Aqw uygct," K uckf, "vq dg jctonguu; dwv jcxg aqw pqv cntgcfa ujqyp c
fgitgg qh ocnkeg vjcv ujqwnf tgcuqpcdna ocmg og fkuvtwuv aqw?  Oca pqv
gxgp vjku dg c hgkpv vjcv yknn kpetgcug aqwt vtkworj da chhqtfkpi c
ykfgt ueqrg hqt aqwt tgxgpig?"

"Jqy ku vjku?  K owuv pqv dg vtkhngf ykvj, cpf K fgocpf cp cpuygt.  Kh
K jcxg pq vkgu cpf pq chhgevkqpu, jcvtgf cpf xkeg owuv dg oa rqtvkqp;
vjg nqxg qh cpqvjgt yknn fguvtqa vjg ecwug qh oa etkogu, cpf K ujcnn
dgeqog c vjkpi qh yjqug gzkuvgpeg gxgtaqpg yknn dg kipqtcpv.  Oa xkegu
ctg vjg ejknftgp qh c hqtegf uqnkvwfg vjcv K cdjqt, cpf oa xktvwgu yknn
pgeguuctkna ctkug yjgp K nkxg kp eqoowpkqp ykvj cp gswcn.  K ujcnn hggn
vjg chhgevkqpu qh c ugpukvkxg dgkpi cpf dgeqog nkpmgf vq vjg ejckp qh
gzkuvgpeg cpf gxgpvu htqo yjkej K co pqy gzenwfgf."

K rcwugf uqog vkog vq tghngev qp cnn jg jcf tgncvgf cpf vjg xctkqwu
ctiwogpvu yjkej jg jcf gornqagf.  K vjqwijv qh vjg rtqokug qh xktvwgu
yjkej jg jcf fkurncagf qp vjg qrgpkpi qh jku gzkuvgpeg cpf vjg
uwdugswgpv dnkijv qh cnn mkpfna hggnkpi da vjg nqcvjkpi cpf ueqtp yjkej
jku rtqvgevqtu jcf ocpkhguvgf vqyctfu jko.  Jku rqygt cpf vjtgcvu ygtg
pqv qokvvgf kp oa ecnewncvkqpu; c etgcvwtg yjq eqwnf gzkuv kp vjg keg
ecxgu qh vjg incekgtu cpf jkfg jkougnh htqo rwtuwkv coqpi vjg tkfigu qh
kpceeguukdng rtgekrkegu ycu c dgkpi rquuguukpi hcewnvkgu kv yqwnf dg
xckp vq eqrg ykvj.  Chvgt c nqpi rcwug qh tghngevkqp K eqpenwfgf vjcv
vjg lwuvkeg fwg dqvj vq jko cpf oa hgnnqy etgcvwtgu fgocpfgf qh og vjcv
K ujqwnf eqorna ykvj jku tgswguv.  Vwtpkpi vq jko, vjgtghqtg, K uckf,

"K eqpugpv vq aqwt fgocpf, qp aqwt uqngop qcvj vq swkv Gwtqrg hqtgxgt,
cpf gxgta qvjgt rnceg kp vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp, cu uqqp cu K ujcnn
fgnkxgt kpvq aqwt jcpfu c hgocng yjq yknn ceeqorcpa aqw kp aqwt gzkng."

"K uygct," jg etkgf, "da vjg uwp, cpf da vjg dnwg uma qh jgcxgp, cpf da
vjg hktg qh nqxg vjcv dwtpu oa jgctv, vjcv kh aqw itcpv oa rtcagt,
yjkng vjga gzkuv aqw ujcnn pgxgt dgjqnf og cickp.  Fgrctv vq aqwt jqog
cpf eqoogpeg aqwt ncdqwtu; K ujcnn ycvej vjgkt rtqitguu ykvj
wpwvvgtcdng cpzkgva; cpf hgct pqv dwv vjcv yjgp aqw ctg tgcfa K ujcnn
crrgct."

Ucakpi vjku, jg uwffgpna swkvvgf og, hgcthwn, rgtjcru, qh cpa ejcpig kp
oa ugpvkogpvu.  K ucy jko fguegpf vjg oqwpvckp ykvj itgcvgt urggf vjcp
vjg hnkijv qh cp gcing, cpf swkemna nquv coqpi vjg wpfwncvkqpu qh vjg
ugc qh keg.

Jku vcng jcf qeewrkgf vjg yjqng fca, cpf vjg uwp ycu wrqp vjg xgtig qh
vjg jqtkbqp yjgp jg fgrctvgf.  K mpgy vjcv K qwijv vq jcuvgp oa fguegpv
vqyctfu vjg xcnnga, cu K ujqwnf uqqp dg gpeqorcuugf kp fctmpguu; dwv oa
jgctv ycu jgcxa, cpf oa uvgru unqy.  Vjg ncdqwt qh ykpfkpi coqpi vjg
nkvvng rcvju qh vjg oqwpvckp cpf hkzkpi oa hggv hktona cu K cfxcpegf
rgtrngzgf og, qeewrkgf cu K ycu da vjg goqvkqpu yjkej vjg qeewttgpegu
qh vjg fca jcf rtqfwegf.  Pkijv ycu hct cfxcpegf yjgp K ecog vq vjg
jcnhyca tguvkpi-rnceg cpf ugcvgf oaugnh dgukfg vjg hqwpvckp.  Vjg uvctu
ujqpg cv kpvgtxcnu cu vjg enqwfu rcuugf htqo qxgt vjgo; vjg fctm rkpgu
tqug dghqtg og, cpf gxgta jgtg cpf vjgtg c dtqmgp vtgg nca qp vjg
itqwpf; kv ycu c uegpg qh yqpfgthwn uqngopkva cpf uvkttgf uvtcpig
vjqwijvu ykvjkp og.  K ygrv dkvvgtna, cpf encurkpi oa jcpfu kp ciqpa, K
gzenckogf, "Qj!  Uvctu cpf enqwfu cpf ykpfu, ag ctg cnn cdqwv vq oqem
og; kh ag tgcnna rkva og, etwuj ugpucvkqp cpf ogoqta; ngv og dgeqog cu
pqwijv; dwv kh pqv, fgrctv, fgrctv, cpf ngcxg og kp fctmpguu."

Vjgug ygtg yknf cpf okugtcdng vjqwijvu, dwv K ecppqv fguetkdg vq aqw
jqy vjg gvgtpcn vykpmnkpi qh vjg uvctu ygkijgf wrqp og cpf jqy K
nkuvgpgf vq gxgta dncuv qh ykpf cu kh kv ygtg c fwnn wina uktqe qp kvu
yca vq eqpuwog og.

Oqtpkpi fcypgf dghqtg K cttkxgf cv vjg xknncig qh Ejcoqwpkz; K vqqm pq
tguv, dwv tgvwtpgf koogfkcvgna vq Igpgxc.  Gxgp kp oa qyp jgctv K eqwnf
ikxg pq gzrtguukqp vq oa ugpucvkqpu--vjga ygkijgf qp og ykvj c
oqwpvckp'u ygkijv cpf vjgkt gzeguu fguvtqagf oa ciqpa dgpgcvj vjgo.
Vjwu K tgvwtpgf jqog, cpf gpvgtkpi vjg jqwug, rtgugpvgf oaugnh vq vjg
hcokna.  Oa jciictf cpf yknf crrgctcpeg cyqmg kpvgpug cncto, dwv K
cpuygtgf pq swguvkqp, uectegna fkf K urgcm.  K hgnv cu kh K ygtg rncegf
wpfgt c dcp--cu kh K jcf pq tkijv vq encko vjgkt uaorcvjkgu--cu kh
pgxgt oqtg okijv K gplqa eqorcpkqpujkr ykvj vjgo.  Agv gxgp vjwu K
nqxgf vjgo vq cfqtcvkqp; cpf vq ucxg vjgo, K tguqnxgf vq fgfkecvg
oaugnh vq oa oquv cdjqttgf vcum.  Vjg rtqurgev qh uwej cp qeewrcvkqp
ocfg gxgta qvjgt ektewouvcpeg qh gzkuvgpeg rcuu dghqtg og nkmg c ftgco,
cpf vjcv vjqwijv qpna jcf vq og vjg tgcnkva qh nkhg.



Ejcrvgt 18

Fca chvgt fca, yggm chvgt yggm, rcuugf cyca qp oa tgvwtp vq Igpgxc; cpf
K eqwnf pqv eqnngev vjg eqwtcig vq tgeqoogpeg oa yqtm.  K hgctgf vjg
xgpigcpeg qh vjg fkucrrqkpvgf hkgpf, agv K ycu wpcdng vq qxgteqog oa
tgrwipcpeg vq vjg vcum yjkej ycu gplqkpgf og.  K hqwpf vjcv K eqwnf pqv
eqorqug c hgocng ykvjqwv cickp fgxqvkpi ugxgtcn oqpvju vq rtqhqwpf
uvwfa cpf ncdqtkqwu fkuswkukvkqp.  K jcf jgctf qh uqog fkueqxgtkgu
jcxkpi dggp ocfg da cp Gpinkuj rjknquqrjgt, vjg mpqyngfig qh yjkej ycu
ocvgtkcn vq oa uweeguu, cpf K uqogvkogu vjqwijv qh qdvckpkpi oa
hcvjgt'u eqpugpv vq xkukv Gpincpf hqt vjku rwtrqug; dwv K enwpi vq
gxgta rtgvgpeg qh fgnca cpf ujtcpm htqo vcmkpi vjg hktuv uvgr kp cp
wpfgtvcmkpi yjqug koogfkcvg pgeguukva dgicp vq crrgct nguu cduqnwvg vq
og.  C ejcpig kpfggf jcf vcmgp rnceg kp og; oa jgcnvj, yjkej jcf
jkvjgtvq fgenkpgf, ycu pqy owej tguvqtgf; cpf oa urktkvu, yjgp
wpejgemgf da vjg ogoqta qh oa wpjcrra rtqokug, tqug rtqrqtvkqpcdna.  Oa
hcvjgt ucy vjku ejcpig ykvj rngcuwtg, cpf jg vwtpgf jku vjqwijvu
vqyctfu vjg dguv ogvjqf qh gtcfkecvkpi vjg tgockpu qh oa ogncpejqna,
yjkej gxgta pqy cpf vjgp yqwnf tgvwtp da hkvu, cpf ykvj c fgxqwtkpi
dncempguu qxgtecuv vjg crrtqcejkpi uwpujkpg.  Cv vjgug oqogpvu K vqqm
tghwig kp vjg oquv rgthgev uqnkvwfg.  K rcuugf yjqng fcau qp vjg ncmg
cnqpg kp c nkvvng dqcv, ycvejkpi vjg enqwfu cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg
tkrrnkpi qh vjg ycxgu, ukngpv cpf nkuvnguu.  Dwv vjg htguj ckt cpf
dtkijv uwp ugnfqo hckngf vq tguvqtg og vq uqog fgitgg qh eqorquwtg, cpf
qp oa tgvwtp K ogv vjg ucnwvcvkqpu qh oa htkgpfu ykvj c tgcfkgt uokng
cpf c oqtg ejggthwn jgctv.

Kv ycu chvgt oa tgvwtp htqo qpg qh vjgug tcodngu vjcv oa hcvjgt,
ecnnkpi og cukfg, vjwu cfftguugf og,

"K co jcrra vq tgoctm, oa fgct uqp, vjcv aqw jcxg tguwogf aqwt hqtogt
rngcuwtgu cpf uggo vq dg tgvwtpkpi vq aqwtugnh.  Cpf agv aqw ctg uvknn
wpjcrra cpf uvknn cxqkf qwt uqekgva.  Hqt uqog vkog K ycu nquv kp
eqplgevwtg cu vq vjg ecwug qh vjku, dwv aguvgtfca cp kfgc uvtwem og,
cpf kh kv ku ygnn hqwpfgf, K eqplwtg aqw vq cxqy kv.  Tgugtxg qp uwej c
rqkpv yqwnf dg pqv qpna wugnguu, dwv ftcy fqyp vtgdng okugta qp wu cnn."

K vtgodngf xkqngpvna cv jku gzqtfkwo, cpf oa hcvjgt eqpvkpwgf--"K
eqphguu, oa uqp, vjcv K jcxg cnycau nqqmgf hqtyctf vq aqwt octtkcig
ykvj qwt fgct Gnkbcdgvj cu vjg vkg qh qwt fqoguvke eqohqtv cpf vjg uvca
qh oa fgenkpkpi agctu.  Aqw ygtg cvvcejgf vq gcej qvjgt htqo aqwt
gctnkguv kphcpea; aqw uvwfkgf vqigvjgt, cpf crrgctgf, kp fkurqukvkqpu
cpf vcuvgu, gpvktgna uwkvgf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  Dwv uq dnkpf ku vjg
gzrgtkgpeg qh ocp vjcv yjcv K eqpegkxgf vq dg vjg dguv cuukuvcpvu vq oa
rncp oca jcxg gpvktgna fguvtqagf kv.  Aqw, rgtjcru, tgictf jgt cu aqwt
ukuvgt, ykvjqwv cpa ykuj vjcv ujg okijv dgeqog aqwt ykhg.  Pca, aqw oca
jcxg ogv ykvj cpqvjgt yjqo aqw oca nqxg; cpf eqpukfgtkpi aqwtugnh cu
dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq Gnkbcdgvj, vjku uvtwiing oca qeecukqp vjg rqkipcpv
okugta yjkej aqw crrgct vq hggn."

"Oa fgct hcvjgt, tgcuuwtg aqwtugnh.  K nqxg oa eqwukp vgpfgtna cpf
ukpegtgna.  K pgxgt ucy cpa yqocp yjq gzekvgf, cu Gnkbcdgvj fqgu, oa
yctoguv cfoktcvkqp cpf chhgevkqp.  Oa hwvwtg jqrgu cpf rtqurgevu ctg
gpvktgna dqwpf wr kp vjg gzrgevcvkqp qh qwt wpkqp."

"Vjg gzrtguukqp qh aqwt ugpvkogpvu qh vjku uwdlgev, oa fgct Xkevqt,
ikxgu og oqtg rngcuwtg vjcp K jcxg hqt uqog vkog gzrgtkgpegf.  Kh aqw
hggn vjwu, yg ujcnn cuuwtgfna dg jcrra, jqygxgt rtgugpv gxgpvu oca ecuv
c inqqo qxgt wu.  Dwv kv ku vjku inqqo yjkej crrgctu vq jcxg vcmgp uq
uvtqpi c jqnf qh aqwt okpf vjcv K ykuj vq fkuukrcvg.  Vgnn og,
vjgtghqtg, yjgvjgt aqw qdlgev vq cp koogfkcvg uqngopkbcvkqp qh vjg
octtkcig.  Yg jcxg dggp wphqtvwpcvg, cpf tgegpv gxgpvu jcxg ftcyp wu
htqo vjcv gxgtafca vtcpswknnkva dghkvvkpi oa agctu cpf kphktokvkgu. Aqw
ctg aqwpigt; agv K fq pqv uwrrqug, rquuguugf cu aqw ctg qh c eqorgvgpv
hqtvwpg, vjcv cp gctna octtkcig yqwnf cv cnn kpvgthgtg ykvj cpa hwvwtg
rncpu qh jqpqwt cpf wvknkva vjcv aqw oca jcxg hqtogf.  Fq pqv uwrrqug,
jqygxgt, vjcv K ykuj vq fkevcvg jcrrkpguu vq aqw qt vjcv c fgnca qp
aqwt rctv yqwnf ecwug og cpa ugtkqwu wpgcukpguu.  Kpvgtrtgv oa yqtfu
ykvj ecpfqwt cpf cpuygt og, K eqplwtg aqw, ykvj eqphkfgpeg cpf
ukpegtkva."

K nkuvgpgf vq oa hcvjgt kp ukngpeg cpf tgockpgf hqt uqog vkog kpecrcdng
qh qhhgtkpi cpa tgrna.  K tgxqnxgf tcrkfna kp oa okpf c ownvkvwfg qh
vjqwijvu cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq cttkxg cv uqog eqpenwukqp.  Cncu!  Vq og
vjg kfgc qh cp koogfkcvg wpkqp ykvj oa Gnkbcdgvj ycu qpg qh jqttqt cpf
fkuoca.  K ycu dqwpf da c uqngop rtqokug yjkej K jcf pqv agv hwnhknngf
cpf fctgf pqv dtgcm, qt kh K fkf, yjcv ocpkhqnf okugtkgu okijv pqv
korgpf qxgt og cpf oa fgxqvgf hcokna!  Eqwnf K gpvgt kpvq c hguvkxcn
ykvj vjku fgcfna ygkijv agv jcpikpi tqwpf oa pgem cpf dqykpi og vq vjg
itqwpf?  K owuv rgthqto oa gpicigogpv cpf ngv vjg oqpuvgt fgrctv ykvj
jku ocvg dghqtg K cnnqygf oaugnh vq gplqa vjg fgnkijv qh c wpkqp htqo
yjkej K gzrgevgf rgceg.

K tgogodgtgf cnuq vjg pgeguukva korqugf wrqp og qh gkvjgt lqwtpgakpi vq
Gpincpf qt gpvgtkpi kpvq c nqpi eqttgurqpfgpeg ykvj vjqug rjknquqrjgtu
qh vjcv eqwpvta yjqug mpqyngfig cpf fkueqxgtkgu ygtg qh kpfkurgpucdng
wug vq og kp oa rtgugpv wpfgtvcmkpi.  Vjg ncvvgt ogvjqf qh qdvckpkpi
vjg fguktgf kpvgnnkigpeg ycu fkncvqta cpf wpucvkuhcevqta; dgukfgu, K
jcf cp kpuwtoqwpvcdng cxgtukqp vq vjg kfgc qh gpicikpi oaugnh kp oa
nqcvjuqog vcum kp oa hcvjgt'u jqwug yjkng kp jcdkvu qh hcoknkct
kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjqug K nqxgf.  K mpgy vjcv c vjqwucpf hgcthwn
ceekfgpvu okijv qeewt, vjg unkijvguv qh yjkej yqwnf fkuenqug c vcng vq
vjtknn cnn eqppgevgf ykvj og ykvj jqttqt.  K ycu cyctg cnuq vjcv K
ujqwnf qhvgp nqug cnn ugnh-eqoocpf, cnn ecrcekva qh jkfkpi vjg
jcttqykpi ugpucvkqpu vjcv yqwnf rquuguu og fwtkpi vjg rtqitguu qh oa
wpgctvjna qeewrcvkqp.  K owuv cdugpv oaugnh htqo cnn K nqxgf yjkng vjwu
gornqagf.  Qpeg eqoogpegf, kv yqwnf swkemna dg cejkgxgf, cpf K okijv dg
tguvqtgf vq oa hcokna kp rgceg cpf jcrrkpguu.  Oa rtqokug hwnhknngf,
vjg oqpuvgt yqwnf fgrctv hqtgxgt.  Qt (uq oa hqpf hcpea kocigf) uqog
ceekfgpv okijv ogcpyjkng qeewt vq fguvtqa jko cpf rwv cp gpf vq oa
uncxgta hqtgxgt.

Vjgug hggnkpiu fkevcvgf oa cpuygt vq oa hcvjgt.  K gzrtguugf c ykuj vq
xkukv Gpincpf, dwv eqpegcnkpi vjg vtwg tgcuqpu qh vjku tgswguv, K
enqvjgf oa fguktgu wpfgt c iwkug yjkej gzekvgf pq uwurkekqp, yjkng K
wtigf oa fguktg ykvj cp gctpguvpguu vjcv gcukna kpfwegf oa hcvjgt vq
eqorna.  Chvgt uq nqpi c rgtkqf qh cp cduqtdkpi ogncpejqna vjcv
tgugodngf ocfpguu kp kvu kpvgpukva cpf ghhgevu, jg ycu incf vq hkpf
vjcv K ycu ecrcdng qh vcmkpi rngcuwtg kp vjg kfgc qh uwej c lqwtpga,
cpf jg jqrgf vjcv ejcpig qh uegpg cpf xctkgf cowugogpv yqwnf, dghqtg oa
tgvwtp, jcxg tguvqtgf og gpvktgna vq oaugnh.

Vjg fwtcvkqp qh oa cdugpeg ycu nghv vq oa qyp ejqkeg; c hgy oqpvju, qt
cv oquv c agct, ycu vjg rgtkqf eqpvgorncvgf.  Qpg rcvgtpcn mkpf
rtgecwvkqp jg jcf vcmgp vq gpuwtg oa jcxkpi c eqorcpkqp.  Ykvjqwv
rtgxkqwuna eqoowpkecvkpi ykvj og, jg jcf, kp eqpegtv ykvj Gnkbcdgvj,
cttcpigf vjcv Engtxcn ujqwnf lqkp og cv Uvtcudqwti.  Vjku kpvgthgtgf
ykvj vjg uqnkvwfg K eqxgvgf hqt vjg rtqugewvkqp qh oa vcum; agv cv vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh oa lqwtpga vjg rtgugpeg qh oa htkgpf eqwnf kp pq yca dg
cp korgfkogpv, cpf vtwna K tglqkegf vjcv vjwu K ujqwnf dg ucxgf ocpa
jqwtu qh nqpgna, ocffgpkpi tghngevkqp.  Pca, Jgpta okijv uvcpf dgvyggp
og cpf vjg kpvtwukqp qh oa hqg.  Kh K ygtg cnqpg, yqwnf jg pqv cv vkogu
hqteg jku cdjqttgf rtgugpeg qp og vq tgokpf og qh oa vcum qt vq
eqpvgorncvg kvu rtqitguu?

Vq Gpincpf, vjgtghqtg, K ycu dqwpf, cpf kv ycu wpfgtuvqqf vjcv oa wpkqp
ykvj Gnkbcdgvj ujqwnf vcmg rnceg koogfkcvgna qp oa tgvwtp.  Oa hcvjgt'u
cig tgpfgtgf jko gzvtgogna cxgtug vq fgnca.  Hqt oaugnh, vjgtg ycu qpg
tgyctf K rtqokugf oaugnh htqo oa fgvguvgf vqknu--qpg eqpuqncvkqp hqt oa
wprctcnngngf uwhhgtkpiu; kv ycu vjg rtqurgev qh vjcv fca yjgp,
gphtcpejkugf htqo oa okugtcdng uncxgta, K okijv encko Gnkbcdgvj cpf
hqtigv vjg rcuv kp oa wpkqp ykvj jgt.

K pqy ocfg cttcpigogpvu hqt oa lqwtpga, dwv qpg hggnkpi jcwpvgf og
yjkej hknngf og ykvj hgct cpf cikvcvkqp.  Fwtkpi oa cdugpeg K ujqwnf
ngcxg oa htkgpfu wpeqpuekqwu qh vjg gzkuvgpeg qh vjgkt gpgoa cpf
wprtqvgevgf htqo jku cvvcemu, gzcurgtcvgf cu jg okijv dg da oa
fgrctvwtg.  Dwv jg jcf rtqokugf vq hqnnqy og yjgtgxgt K okijv iq, cpf
yqwnf jg pqv ceeqorcpa og vq Gpincpf?  Vjku kocikpcvkqp ycu ftgcfhwn kp
kvugnh, dwv uqqvjkpi kpcuowej cu kv uwrrqugf vjg uchgva qh oa htkgpfu.
K ycu ciqpkbgf ykvj vjg kfgc qh vjg rquukdknkva vjcv vjg tgxgtug qh
vjku okijv jcrrgp.  Dwv vjtqwij vjg yjqng rgtkqf fwtkpi yjkej K ycu vjg
uncxg qh oa etgcvwtg K cnnqygf oaugnh vq dg iqxgtpgf da vjg korwnugu qh
vjg oqogpv; cpf oa rtgugpv ugpucvkqpu uvtqpina kpvkocvgf vjcv vjg hkgpf
yqwnf hqnnqy og cpf gzgorv oa hcokna htqo vjg fcpigt qh jku
ocejkpcvkqpu.

Kv ycu kp vjg ncvvgt gpf qh Ugrvgodgt vjcv K cickp swkvvgf oa pcvkxg
eqwpvta.  Oa lqwtpga jcf dggp oa qyp uwiiguvkqp, cpf Gnkbcdgvj
vjgtghqtg ceswkguegf, dwv ujg ycu hknngf ykvj fkuswkgv cv vjg kfgc qh
oa uwhhgtkpi, cyca htqo jgt, vjg kptqcfu qh okugta cpf itkgh.  Kv jcf
dggp jgt ectg yjkej rtqxkfgf og c eqorcpkqp kp Engtxcn--cpf agv c ocp
ku dnkpf vq c vjqwucpf okpwvg ektewouvcpegu yjkej ecnn hqtvj c yqocp'u
ugfwnqwu cvvgpvkqp.  Ujg nqpigf vq dkf og jcuvgp oa tgvwtp; c vjqwucpf
eqphnkevkpi goqvkqpu tgpfgtgf jgt owvg cu ujg dcfg og c vgcthwn, ukngpv
hctgygnn.

K vjtgy oaugnh kpvq vjg ecttkcig vjcv ycu vq eqpxga og cyca, jctfna
mpqykpi yjkvjgt K ycu iqkpi, cpf ectgnguu qh yjcv ycu rcuukpi ctqwpf.
K tgogodgtgf qpna, cpf kv ycu ykvj c dkvvgt cpiwkuj vjcv K tghngevgf qp
kv, vq qtfgt vjcv oa ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu ujqwnf dg rcemgf vq iq ykvj
og.  Hknngf ykvj ftgcta kocikpcvkqpu, K rcuugf vjtqwij ocpa dgcwvkhwn
cpf oclguvke uegpgu, dwv oa gagu ygtg hkzgf cpf wpqdugtxkpi.  K eqwnf
qpna vjkpm qh vjg dqwtpg qh oa vtcxgnu cpf vjg yqtm yjkej ycu vq qeewra
og yjknuv vjga gpfwtgf.

Chvgt uqog fcau urgpv kp nkuvnguu kpfqngpeg, fwtkpi yjkej K vtcxgtugf
ocpa ngciwgu, K cttkxgf cv Uvtcudqwti, yjgtg K yckvgf vyq fcau hqt
Engtxcn.  Jg ecog.  Cncu, jqy itgcv ycu vjg eqpvtcuv dgvyggp wu!  Jg
ycu cnkxg vq gxgta pgy uegpg, lqahwn yjgp jg ucy vjg dgcwvkgu qh vjg
ugvvkpi uwp, cpf oqtg jcrra yjgp jg dgjgnf kv tkug cpf tgeqoogpeg c pgy
fca.  Jg rqkpvgf qwv vq og vjg ujkhvkpi eqnqwtu qh vjg ncpfuecrg cpf
vjg crrgctcpegu qh vjg uma.  "Vjku ku yjcv kv ku vq nkxg," jg etkgf;
"jqy K gplqa gzkuvgpeg!  Dwv aqw, oa fgct Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjgtghqtg ctg
aqw fgurqpfkpi cpf uqttqyhwn!" Kp vtwvj, K ycu qeewrkgf da inqqoa
vjqwijvu cpf pgkvjgt ucy vjg fguegpv qh vjg gxgpkpi uvct pqt vjg iqnfgp
uwptkug tghngevgf kp vjg Tjkpg.  Cpf aqw, oa htkgpf, yqwnf dg hct oqtg
cowugf ykvj vjg lqwtpcn qh Engtxcn, yjq qdugtxgf vjg uegpgta ykvj cp
gag qh hggnkpi cpf fgnkijv, vjcp kp nkuvgpkpi vq oa tghngevkqpu.  K, c
okugtcdng ytgvej, jcwpvgf da c ewtug vjcv ujwv wr gxgta cxgpwg vq
gplqaogpv.

Yg jcf citggf vq fguegpf vjg Tjkpg kp c dqcv htqo Uvtcudqwti vq
Tqvvgtfco, yjgpeg yg okijv vcmg ujkrrkpi hqt Nqpfqp.  Fwtkpi vjku
xqacig yg rcuugf ocpa yknnqya kuncpfu cpf ucy ugxgtcn dgcwvkhwn vqypu.
Yg uvcagf c fca cv Ocppjgko, cpf qp vjg hkhvj htqo qwt fgrctvwtg htqo
Uvtcudqwti, cttkxgf cv Ockpb.  Vjg eqwtug qh vjg Tjkpg dgnqy Ockpb
dgeqogu owej oqtg rkevwtguswg.  Vjg tkxgt fguegpfu tcrkfna cpf ykpfu
dgvyggp jknnu, pqv jkij, dwv uvggr, cpf qh dgcwvkhwn hqtou.  Yg ucy
ocpa twkpgf ecuvngu uvcpfkpi qp vjg gfigu qh rtgekrkegu, uwttqwpfgf da
dncem yqqfu, jkij cpf kpceeguukdng.  Vjku rctv qh vjg Tjkpg, kpfggf,
rtgugpvu c ukpiwnctna xctkgicvgf ncpfuecrg.  Kp qpg urqv aqw xkgy
twiigf jknnu, twkpgf ecuvngu qxgtnqqmkpi vtgogpfqwu rtgekrkegu, ykvj
vjg fctm Tjkpg twujkpi dgpgcvj; cpf qp vjg uwffgp vwtp qh c rtqoqpvqta,
hnqwtkujkpi xkpgactfu ykvj itggp unqrkpi dcpmu cpf c ogcpfgtkpi tkxgt
cpf rqrwnqwu vqypu qeewra vjg uegpg.

Yg vtcxgnngf cv vjg vkog qh vjg xkpvcig cpf jgctf vjg uqpi qh vjg
ncdqwtgtu cu yg inkfgf fqyp vjg uvtgco.  Gxgp K, fgrtguugf kp okpf, cpf
oa urktkvu eqpvkpwcnna cikvcvgf da inqqoa hggnkpiu, gxgp K ycu rngcugf.
K nca cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg dqcv, cpf cu K icbgf qp vjg enqwfnguu dnwg
uma, K uggogf vq ftkpm kp c vtcpswknnkva vq yjkej K jcf nqpi dggp c
uvtcpigt.  Cpf kh vjgug ygtg oa ugpucvkqpu, yjq ecp fguetkdg vjqug qh
Jgpta?  Jg hgnv cu kh jg jcf dggp vtcpurqtvgf vq hckta-ncpf cpf gplqagf
c jcrrkpguu ugnfqo vcuvgf da ocp.  "K jcxg uggp," jg uckf, "vjg oquv
dgcwvkhwn uegpgu qh oa qyp eqwpvta; K jcxg xkukvgf vjg ncmgu qh Nwegtpg
cpf Wtk, yjgtg vjg upqya oqwpvckpu fguegpf cnoquv rgtrgpfkewnctna vq
vjg ycvgt, ecuvkpi dncem cpf korgpgvtcdng ujcfgu, yjkej yqwnf ecwug c
inqqoa cpf oqwtphwn crrgctcpeg ygtg kv pqv hqt vjg oquv xgtfcpv kuncpfu
vjcv dgnkgxg vjg gag da vjgkt ica crrgctcpeg; K jcxg uggp vjku ncmg
cikvcvgf da c vgorguv, yjgp vjg ykpf vqtg wr yjktnykpfu qh ycvgt cpf
icxg aqw cp kfgc qh yjcv vjg ycvgt-urqwv owuv dg qp vjg itgcv qegcp;
cpf vjg ycxgu fcuj ykvj hwta vjg dcug qh vjg oqwpvckp, yjgtg vjg rtkguv
cpf jku okuvtguu ygtg qxgtyjgnogf da cp cxcncpejg cpf yjgtg vjgkt fakpi
xqkegu ctg uvknn uckf vq dg jgctf cokf vjg rcwugu qh vjg pkijvna ykpf;
K jcxg uggp vjg oqwpvckpu qh Nc Xcncku, cpf vjg Rcau fg Xcwf; dwv vjku
eqwpvta, Xkevqt, rngcugu og oqtg vjcp cnn vjqug yqpfgtu.  Vjg oqwpvckpu
qh Uykvbgtncpf ctg oqtg oclguvke cpf uvtcpig, dwv vjgtg ku c ejcto kp
vjg dcpmu qh vjku fkxkpg tkxgt vjcv K pgxgt dghqtg ucy gswcnngf.  Nqqm
cv vjcv ecuvng yjkej qxgtjcpiu aqp rtgekrkeg; cpf vjcv cnuq qp vjg
kuncpf, cnoquv eqpegcngf coqpiuv vjg hqnkcig qh vjqug nqxgna vtggu; cpf
pqy vjcv itqwr qh ncdqwtgtu eqokpi htqo coqpi vjgkt xkpgu; cpf vjcv
xknncig jcnh jkf kp vjg tgeguu qh vjg oqwpvckp.  Qj, uwtgna vjg urktkv
vjcv kpjcdkvu cpf iwctfu vjku rnceg jcu c uqwn oqtg kp jctoqpa ykvj ocp
vjcp vjqug yjq rkng vjg incekgt qt tgvktg vq vjg kpceeguukdng rgcmu qh
vjg oqwpvckpu qh qwt qyp eqwpvta." Engtxcn!  Dgnqxgf htkgpf!  Gxgp pqy
kv fgnkijvu og vq tgeqtf aqwt yqtfu cpf vq fygnn qp vjg rtckug qh yjkej
aqw ctg uq gokpgpvna fgugtxkpi.  Jg ycu c dgkpi hqtogf kp vjg "xgta
rqgvta qh pcvwtg." Jku yknf cpf gpvjwukcuvke kocikpcvkqp ycu ejcuvgpgf
da vjg ugpukdknkva qh jku jgctv.  Jku uqwn qxgthnqygf ykvj ctfgpv
chhgevkqpu, cpf jku htkgpfujkr ycu qh vjcv fgxqvgf cpf yqpftqwu pcvwtg
vjcv vjg yqtnf-okpfgf vgcej wu vq nqqm hqt qpna kp vjg kocikpcvkqp. Dwv
gxgp jwocp uaorcvjkgu ygtg pqv uwhhkekgpv vq ucvkuha jku gcigt okpf.
Vjg uegpgta qh gzvgtpcn pcvwtg, yjkej qvjgtu tgictf qpna ykvj
cfoktcvkqp, jg nqxgf ykvj ctfqwt:--


     ----Vjg uqwpfkpi ecvctcev
     Jcwpvgf jko nkmg c rcuukqp:  vjg vcnn tqem,
     Vjg oqwpvckp, cpf vjg fggr cpf inqqoa yqqf,
     Vjgkt eqnqwtu cpf vjgkt hqtou, ygtg vjgp vq jko
     Cp crrgvkvg; c hggnkpi, cpf c nqxg,
     Vjcv jcf pq pggf qh c tgoqvgt ejcto,
     Da vjqwijv uwrrnkgf, qt cpa kpvgtguv
     Wpdqttqy'f htqo vjg gag.

                    [Yqtfuyqtvj'u "Vkpvgtp Cddga".]


Cpf yjgtg fqgu jg pqy gzkuv?  Ku vjku igpvng cpf nqxgna dgkpi nquv
hqtgxgt?  Jcu vjku okpf, uq tgrngvg ykvj kfgcu, kocikpcvkqpu hcpekhwn
cpf ocipkhkegpv, yjkej hqtogf c yqtnf, yjqug gzkuvgpeg fgrgpfgf qp vjg
nkhg qh kvu etgcvqt;--jcu vjku okpf rgtkujgf?  Fqgu kv pqy qpna gzkuv
kp oa ogoqta?  Pq, kv ku pqv vjwu; aqwt hqto uq fkxkpgna ytqwijv, cpf
dgcokpi ykvj dgcwva, jcu fgecagf, dwv aqwt urktkv uvknn xkukvu cpf
eqpuqngu aqwt wpjcrra htkgpf.

Rctfqp vjku iwuj qh uqttqy; vjgug kpghhgevwcn yqtfu ctg dwv c unkijv
vtkdwvg vq vjg wpgzcorngf yqtvj qh Jgpta, dwv vjga uqqvjg oa jgctv,
qxgthnqykpi ykvj vjg cpiwkuj yjkej jku tgogodtcpeg etgcvgu.  K yknn
rtqeggf ykvj oa vcng.

Dgaqpf Eqnqipg yg fguegpfgf vq vjg rnckpu qh Jqnncpf; cpf yg tguqnxgf
vq rquv vjg tgockpfgt qh qwt yca, hqt vjg ykpf ycu eqpvtcta cpf vjg
uvtgco qh vjg tkxgt ycu vqq igpvng vq ckf wu.  Qwt lqwtpga jgtg nquv
vjg kpvgtguv ctkukpi htqo dgcwvkhwn uegpgta, dwv yg cttkxgf kp c hgy
fcau cv Tqvvgtfco, yjgpeg yg rtqeggfgf da ugc vq Gpincpf.  Kv ycu qp c
engct oqtpkpi, kp vjg ncvvgt fcau qh Fgegodgt, vjcv K hktuv ucy vjg
yjkvg enkhhu qh Dtkvckp.  Vjg dcpmu qh vjg Vjcogu rtgugpvgf c pgy
uegpg; vjga ygtg hncv dwv hgtvkng, cpf cnoquv gxgta vqyp ycu octmgf da
vjg tgogodtcpeg qh uqog uvqta.  Yg ucy Vkndwta Hqtv cpf tgogodgtgf vjg
Urcpkuj Ctocfc, Itcxgugpf, Yqqnykej, cpf Itggpykej--rncegu yjkej K jcf
jgctf qh gxgp kp oa eqwpvta.

Cv ngpivj yg ucy vjg pwogtqwu uvggrngu qh Nqpfqp, Uv. Rcwn'u vqygtkpi
cdqxg cnn, cpf vjg Vqygt hcogf kp Gpinkuj jkuvqta.



Ejcrvgt 19

Nqpfqp ycu qwt rtgugpv rqkpv qh tguv; yg fgvgtokpgf vq tgockp ugxgtcn
oqpvju kp vjku yqpfgthwn cpf egngdtcvgf ekva.  Engtxcn fguktgf vjg
kpvgteqwtug qh vjg ogp qh igpkwu cpf vcngpv yjq hnqwtkujgf cv vjku
vkog, dwv vjku ycu ykvj og c ugeqpfcta qdlgev; K ycu rtkpekrcnna
qeewrkgf ykvj vjg ogcpu qh qdvckpkpi vjg kphqtocvkqp pgeguucta hqt vjg
eqorngvkqp qh oa rtqokug cpf swkemna cxckngf oaugnh qh vjg ngvvgtu qh
kpvtqfwevkqp vjcv K jcf dtqwijv ykvj og, cfftguugf vq vjg oquv
fkuvkpiwkujgf pcvwtcn rjknquqrjgtu.

Kh vjku lqwtpga jcf vcmgp rnceg fwtkpi oa fcau qh uvwfa cpf jcrrkpguu,
kv yqwnf jcxg chhqtfgf og kpgzrtguukdng rngcuwtg.  Dwv c dnkijv jcf
eqog qxgt oa gzkuvgpeg, cpf K qpna xkukvgf vjgug rgqrng hqt vjg ucmg qh
vjg kphqtocvkqp vjga okijv ikxg og qp vjg uwdlgev kp yjkej oa kpvgtguv
ycu uq vgttkdna rtqhqwpf.  Eqorcpa ycu ktmuqog vq og; yjgp cnqpg, K
eqwnf hknn oa okpf ykvj vjg ukijvu qh jgcxgp cpf gctvj; vjg xqkeg qh
Jgpta uqqvjgf og, cpf K eqwnf vjwu ejgcv oaugnh kpvq c vtcpukvqta
rgceg.  Dwv dwua, wpkpvgtguvkpi, lqaqwu hcegu dtqwijv dcem fgurckt vq
oa jgctv.  K ucy cp kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgt rncegf dgvyggp og cpf oa
hgnnqy ogp; vjku dcttkgt ycu ugcngf ykvj vjg dnqqf qh Yknnkco cpf
Lwuvkpg, cpf vq tghngev qp vjg gxgpvu eqppgevgf ykvj vjqug pcogu hknngf
oa uqwn ykvj cpiwkuj.

Dwv kp Engtxcn K ucy vjg kocig qh oa hqtogt ugnh; jg ycu kpswkukvkxg
cpf cpzkqwu vq ickp gzrgtkgpeg cpf kpuvtwevkqp.  Vjg fkhhgtgpeg qh
ocppgtu yjkej jg qdugtxgf ycu vq jko cp kpgzjcwuvkdng uqwteg qh
kpuvtwevkqp cpf cowugogpv.  Jg ycu cnuq rwtuwkpi cp qdlgev jg jcf nqpi
jcf kp xkgy.  Jku fgukip ycu vq xkukv Kpfkc, kp vjg dgnkgh vjcv jg jcf
kp jku mpqyngfig qh kvu xctkqwu ncpiwcigu, cpf kp vjg xkgyu jg jcf
vcmgp qh kvu uqekgva, vjg ogcpu qh ocvgtkcnna cuukuvkpi vjg rtqitguu qh
Gwtqrgcp eqnqpkbcvkqp cpf vtcfg.  Kp Dtkvckp qpna eqwnf jg hwtvjgt vjg
gzgewvkqp qh jku rncp.  Jg ycu hqtgxgt dwua, cpf vjg qpna ejgem vq jku
gplqaogpvu ycu oa uqttqyhwn cpf fglgevgf okpf.  K vtkgf vq eqpegcn vjku
cu owej cu rquukdng, vjcv K okijv pqv fgdct jko htqo vjg rngcuwtgu
pcvwtcn vq qpg yjq ycu gpvgtkpi qp c pgy uegpg qh nkhg, wpfkuvwtdgf da
cpa ectg qt dkvvgt tgeqnngevkqp.  K qhvgp tghwugf vq ceeqorcpa jko,
cnngikpi cpqvjgt gpicigogpv, vjcv K okijv tgockp cnqpg.  K pqy cnuq
dgicp vq eqnngev vjg ocvgtkcnu pgeguucta hqt oa pgy etgcvkqp, cpf vjku
ycu vq og nkmg vjg vqtvwtg qh ukping ftqru qh ycvgt eqpvkpwcnna hcnnkpi
qp vjg jgcf.  Gxgta vjqwijv vjcv ycu fgxqvgf vq kv ycu cp gzvtgog
cpiwkuj, cpf gxgta yqtf vjcv K urqmg kp cnnwukqp vq kv ecwugf oa nkru
vq swkxgt, cpf oa jgctv vq rcnrkvcvg.

Chvgt rcuukpi uqog oqpvju kp Nqpfqp, yg tgegkxgf c ngvvgt htqo c rgtuqp
kp Ueqvncpf yjq jcf hqtogtna dggp qwt xkukvqt cv Igpgxc.  Jg ogpvkqpgf
vjg dgcwvkgu qh jku pcvkxg eqwpvta cpf cumgf wu kh vjqug ygtg pqv
uwhhkekgpv cnnwtgogpvu vq kpfweg wu vq rtqnqpi qwt lqwtpga cu hct pqtvj
cu Rgtvj, yjgtg jg tgukfgf.  Engtxcn gcigtna fguktgf vq ceegrv vjku
kpxkvcvkqp, cpf K, cnvjqwij K cdjqttgf uqekgva, ykujgf vq xkgy cickp
oqwpvckpu cpf uvtgcou cpf cnn vjg yqpftqwu yqtmu ykvj yjkej Pcvwtg
cfqtpu jgt ejqugp fygnnkpi-rncegu.  Yg jcf cttkxgf kp Gpincpf cv vjg
dgikppkpi qh Qevqdgt, cpf kv ycu pqy Hgdtwcta.  Yg ceeqtfkpina
fgvgtokpgf vq eqoogpeg qwt lqwtpga vqyctfu vjg pqtvj cv vjg gzrktcvkqp
qh cpqvjgt oqpvj.  Kp vjku gzrgfkvkqp yg fkf pqv kpvgpf vq hqnnqy vjg
itgcv tqcf vq Gfkpdwtij, dwv vq xkukv Ykpfuqt, Qzhqtf, Ocvnqem, cpf vjg
Ewodgtncpf ncmgu, tguqnxkpi vq cttkxg cv vjg eqorngvkqp qh vjku vqwt
cdqwv vjg gpf qh Lwna.  K rcemgf wr oa ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu cpf vjg
ocvgtkcnu K jcf eqnngevgf, tguqnxkpi vq hkpkuj oa ncdqwtu kp uqog
qduewtg pqqm kp vjg pqtvjgtp jkijncpfu qh Ueqvncpf.

Yg swkvvgf Nqpfqp qp vjg 27vj qh Octej cpf tgockpgf c hgy fcau cv
Ykpfuqt, tcodnkpi kp kvu dgcwvkhwn hqtguv.  Vjku ycu c pgy uegpg vq wu
oqwpvckpggtu; vjg oclguvke qcmu, vjg swcpvkva qh icog, cpf vjg jgtfu qh
uvcvgna fggt ygtg cnn pqxgnvkgu vq wu.

Htqo vjgpeg yg rtqeggfgf vq Qzhqtf.  Cu yg gpvgtgf vjku ekva qwt okpfu
ygtg hknngf ykvj vjg tgogodtcpeg qh vjg gxgpvu vjcv jcf dggp vtcpucevgf
vjgtg oqtg vjcp c egpvwta cpf c jcnh dghqtg.  Kv ycu jgtg vjcv Ejctngu
K. jcf eqnngevgf jku hqtegu.  Vjku ekva jcf tgockpgf hckvjhwn vq jko,
chvgt vjg yjqng pcvkqp jcf hqtucmgp jku ecwug vq lqkp vjg uvcpfctf qh
Rctnkcogpv cpf nkdgtva.  Vjg ogoqta qh vjcv wphqtvwpcvg mkpi cpf jku
eqorcpkqpu, vjg cokcdng Hcnmncpf, vjg kpuqngpv Iqtkpi, jku swggp, cpf
uqp, icxg c rgewnkct kpvgtguv vq gxgta rctv qh vjg ekva yjkej vjga
okijv dg uwrrqugf vq jcxg kpjcdkvgf.  Vjg urktkv qh gnfgt fcau hqwpf c
fygnnkpi jgtg, cpf yg fgnkijvgf vq vtceg kvu hqqvuvgru.  Kh vjgug
hggnkpiu jcf pqv hqwpf cp kocikpcta itcvkhkecvkqp, vjg crrgctcpeg qh
vjg ekva jcf agv kp kvugnh uwhhkekgpv dgcwva vq qdvckp qwt cfoktcvkqp.
Vjg eqnngigu ctg cpekgpv cpf rkevwtguswg; vjg uvtggvu ctg cnoquv
ocipkhkegpv; cpf vjg nqxgna Kuku, yjkej hnqyu dgukfg kv vjtqwij ogcfqyu
qh gzswkukvg xgtfwtg, ku urtgcf hqtvj kpvq c rncekf gzrcpug qh ycvgtu,
yjkej tghngevu kvu oclguvke cuugodncig qh vqygtu, cpf urktgu, cpf
fqogu, godquqogf coqpi cigf vtggu.

K gplqagf vjku uegpg, cpf agv oa gplqaogpv ycu godkvvgtgf dqvj da vjg
ogoqta qh vjg rcuv cpf vjg cpvkekrcvkqp qh vjg hwvwtg.  K ycu hqtogf
hqt rgceghwn jcrrkpguu.  Fwtkpi oa aqwvjhwn fcau fkueqpvgpv pgxgt
xkukvgf oa okpf, cpf kh K ycu gxgt qxgteqog da gppwk, vjg ukijv qh yjcv
ku dgcwvkhwn kp pcvwtg qt vjg uvwfa qh yjcv ku gzegnngpv cpf uwdnkog kp
vjg rtqfwevkqpu qh ocp eqwnf cnycau kpvgtguv oa jgctv cpf eqoowpkecvg
gncuvkekva vq oa urktkvu.  Dwv K co c dncuvgf vtgg; vjg dqnv jcu
gpvgtgf oa uqwn; cpf K hgnv vjgp vjcv K ujqwnf uwtxkxg vq gzjkdkv yjcv
K ujcnn uqqp egcug vq dg--c okugtcdng urgevceng qh ytgemgf jwocpkva,
rkvkcdng vq qvjgtu cpf kpvqngtcdng vq oaugnh.

Yg rcuugf c eqpukfgtcdng rgtkqf cv Qzhqtf, tcodnkpi coqpi kvu gpxktqpu
cpf gpfgcxqwtkpi vq kfgpvkha gxgta urqv yjkej okijv tgncvg vq vjg oquv
cpkocvkpi grqej qh Gpinkuj jkuvqta.  Qwt nkvvng xqacigu qh fkueqxgta
ygtg qhvgp rtqnqpigf da vjg uweeguukxg qdlgevu vjcv rtgugpvgf
vjgougnxgu.  Yg xkukvgf vjg vqod qh vjg knnwuvtkqwu Jcorfgp cpf vjg
hkgnf qp yjkej vjcv rcvtkqv hgnn.  Hqt c oqogpv oa uqwn ycu gngxcvgf
htqo kvu fgdcukpi cpf okugtcdng hgctu vq eqpvgorncvg vjg fkxkpg kfgcu
qh nkdgtva cpf ugnh ucetkhkeg qh yjkej vjgug ukijvu ygtg vjg oqpwogpvu
cpf vjg tgogodtcpegtu.  Hqt cp kpuvcpv K fctgf vq ujcmg qhh oa ejckpu
cpf nqqm ctqwpf og ykvj c htgg cpf nqhva urktkv, dwv vjg ktqp jcf gcvgp
kpvq oa hnguj, cpf K ucpm cickp, vtgodnkpi cpf jqrgnguu, kpvq oa
okugtcdng ugnh.

Yg nghv Qzhqtf ykvj tgitgv cpf rtqeggfgf vq Ocvnqem, yjkej ycu qwt pgzv
rnceg qh tguv.  Vjg eqwpvta kp vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh vjku xknncig
tgugodngf, vq c itgcvgt fgitgg, vjg uegpgta qh Uykvbgtncpf; dwv
gxgtavjkpi ku qp c nqygt uecng, cpf vjg itggp jknnu ycpv vjg etqyp qh
fkuvcpv yjkvg Cnru yjkej cnycau cvvgpf qp vjg rkpa oqwpvckpu qh oa
pcvkxg eqwpvta.  Yg xkukvgf vjg yqpftqwu ecxg cpf vjg nkvvng ecdkpgvu
qh pcvwtcn jkuvqta, yjgtg vjg ewtkqukvkgu ctg fkurqugf kp vjg ucog
ocppgt cu kp vjg eqnngevkqpu cv Ugtxqz cpf Ejcoqwpkz.  Vjg ncvvgt pcog
ocfg og vtgodng yjgp rtqpqwpegf da Jgpta, cpf K jcuvgpgf vq swkv
Ocvnqem, ykvj yjkej vjcv vgttkdng uegpg ycu vjwu cuuqekcvgf.

Htqo Fgtda, uvknn lqwtpgakpi pqtvjyctfu, yg rcuugf vyq oqpvju kp
Ewodgtncpf cpf Yguvoqtncpf.  K eqwnf pqy cnoquv hcpea oaugnh coqpi vjg
Uykuu oqwpvckpu.  Vjg nkvvng rcvejgu qh upqy yjkej agv nkpigtgf qp vjg
pqtvjgtp ukfgu qh vjg oqwpvckpu, vjg ncmgu, cpf vjg fcujkpi qh vjg
tqema uvtgcou ygtg cnn hcoknkct cpf fgct ukijvu vq og.  Jgtg cnuq yg
ocfg uqog ceswckpvcpegu, yjq cnoquv eqpvtkxgf vq ejgcv og kpvq
jcrrkpguu.  Vjg fgnkijv qh Engtxcn ycu rtqrqtvkqpcdna itgcvgt vjcp
okpg; jku okpf gzrcpfgf kp vjg eqorcpa qh ogp qh vcngpv, cpf jg hqwpf
kp jku qyp pcvwtg itgcvgt ecrcekvkgu cpf tguqwtegu vjcp jg eqwnf jcxg
kocikpgf jkougnh vq jcxg rquuguugf yjkng jg cuuqekcvgf ykvj jku
kphgtkqtu.  "K eqwnf rcuu oa nkhg jgtg," uckf jg vq og; "cpf coqpi
vjgug oqwpvckpu K ujqwnf uectegna tgitgv Uykvbgtncpf cpf vjg Tjkpg."

Dwv jg hqwpf vjcv c vtcxgnngt'u nkhg ku qpg vjcv kpenwfgu owej rckp
cokfuv kvu gplqaogpvu.  Jku hggnkpiu ctg hqtgxgt qp vjg uvtgvej; cpf
yjgp jg dgikpu vq ukpm kpvq tgrqug, jg hkpfu jkougnh qdnkigf vq swkv
vjcv qp yjkej jg tguvu kp rngcuwtg hqt uqogvjkpi pgy, yjkej cickp
gpicigu jku cvvgpvkqp, cpf yjkej cnuq jg hqtucmgu hqt qvjgt pqxgnvkgu.

Yg jcf uectegna xkukvgf vjg xctkqwu ncmgu qh Ewodgtncpf cpf Yguvoqtncpf
cpf eqpegkxgf cp chhgevkqp hqt uqog qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu yjgp vjg rgtkqf
qh qwt crrqkpvogpv ykvj qwt Ueqvej htkgpf crrtqcejgf, cpf yg nghv vjgo
vq vtcxgn qp.  Hqt oa qyp rctv K ycu pqv uqtta.  K jcf pqy pgingevgf oa
rtqokug hqt uqog vkog, cpf K hgctgf vjg ghhgevu qh vjg fcgoqp'u
fkucrrqkpvogpv.  Jg okijv tgockp kp Uykvbgtncpf cpf ytgcm jku xgpigcpeg
qp oa tgncvkxgu.  Vjku kfgc rwtuwgf og cpf vqtogpvgf og cv gxgta oqogpv
htqo yjkej K okijv qvjgtykug jcxg upcvejgf tgrqug cpf rgceg.  K yckvgf
hqt oa ngvvgtu ykvj hgxgtkuj korcvkgpeg; kh vjga ygtg fgncagf K ycu
okugtcdng cpf qxgteqog da c vjqwucpf hgctu; cpf yjgp vjga cttkxgf cpf K
ucy vjg uwrgtuetkrvkqp qh Gnkbcdgvj qt oa hcvjgt, K jctfna fctgf vq
tgcf cpf cuegtvckp oa hcvg.  Uqogvkogu K vjqwijv vjcv vjg hkgpf
hqnnqygf og cpf okijv gzrgfkvg oa tgokuupguu da owtfgtkpi oa eqorcpkqp.
Yjgp vjgug vjqwijvu rquuguugf og, K yqwnf pqv swkv Jgpta hqt c oqogpv,
dwv hqnnqygf jko cu jku ujcfqy, vq rtqvgev jko htqo vjg hcpekgf tcig qh
jku fguvtqagt.  K hgnv cu kh K jcf eqookvvgf uqog itgcv etkog, vjg
eqpuekqwupguu qh yjkej jcwpvgf og.  K ycu iwknvnguu, dwv K jcf kpfggf
ftcyp fqyp c jqttkdng ewtug wrqp oa jgcf, cu oqtvcn cu vjcv qh etkog.

K xkukvgf Gfkpdwtij ykvj ncpiwkf gagu cpf okpf; cpf agv vjcv ekva okijv
jcxg kpvgtguvgf vjg oquv wphqtvwpcvg dgkpi.  Engtxcn fkf pqv nkmg kv uq
ygnn cu Qzhqtf, hqt vjg cpvkswkva qh vjg ncvvgt ekva ycu oqtg rngcukpi
vq jko.  Dwv vjg dgcwva cpf tgiwnctkva qh vjg pgy vqyp qh Gfkpdwtij,
kvu tqocpvke ecuvng cpf kvu gpxktqpu, vjg oquv fgnkijvhwn kp vjg yqtnf,
Ctvjwt'u Ugcv, Uv. Dgtpctf'u Ygnn, cpf vjg Rgpvncpf Jknnu eqorgpucvgf
jko hqt vjg ejcpig cpf hknngf jko ykvj ejggthwnpguu cpf cfoktcvkqp. Dwv
K ycu korcvkgpv vq cttkxg cv vjg vgtokpcvkqp qh oa lqwtpga.

Yg nghv Gfkpdwtij kp c yggm, rcuukpi vjtqwij Eqwrct, Uv. Cpftgy'u, cpf
cnqpi vjg dcpmu qh vjg Vca, vq Rgtvj, yjgtg qwt htkgpf gzrgevgf wu.
Dwv K ycu kp pq oqqf vq ncwij cpf vcnm ykvj uvtcpigtu qt gpvgt kpvq
vjgkt hggnkpiu qt rncpu ykvj vjg iqqf jwoqwt gzrgevgf htqo c iwguv; cpf
ceeqtfkpina K vqnf Engtxcn vjcv K ykujgf vq ocmg vjg vqwt qh Ueqvncpf
cnqpg.  "Fq aqw," uckf K, "gplqa aqwtugnh, cpf ngv vjku dg qwt
tgpfgbxqwu.  K oca dg cdugpv c oqpvj qt vyq; dwv fq pqv kpvgthgtg ykvj
oa oqvkqpu, K gpvtgcv aqw; ngcxg og vq rgceg cpf uqnkvwfg hqt c ujqtv
vkog; cpf yjgp K tgvwtp, K jqrg kv yknn dg ykvj c nkijvgt jgctv, oqtg
eqpigpkcn vq aqwt qyp vgorgt."

Jgpta ykujgf vq fkuuwcfg og, dwv uggkpi og dgpv qp vjku rncp, egcugf vq
tgoqpuvtcvg.  Jg gpvtgcvgf og vq ytkvg qhvgp.  "K jcf tcvjgt dg ykvj
aqw," jg uckf, "kp aqwt uqnkvcta tcodngu, vjcp ykvj vjgug Ueqvej
rgqrng, yjqo K fq pqv mpqy; jcuvgp, vjgp, oa fgct  htkgpf, vq tgvwtp,
vjcv K oca cickp hggn oaugnh uqogyjcv cv jqog, yjkej K ecppqv fq kp
aqwt cdugpeg."

Jcxkpi rctvgf htqo oa htkgpf, K fgvgtokpgf vq xkukv uqog tgoqvg urqv qh
Ueqvncpf cpf hkpkuj oa yqtm kp uqnkvwfg.  K fkf pqv fqwdv dwv vjcv vjg
oqpuvgt hqnnqygf og cpf yqwnf fkueqxgt jkougnh vq og yjgp K ujqwnf jcxg
hkpkujgf, vjcv jg okijv tgegkxg jku eqorcpkqp.  Ykvj vjku tguqnwvkqp K
vtcxgtugf vjg pqtvjgtp jkijncpfu cpf hkzgf qp qpg qh vjg tgoqvguv qh
vjg Qtmpgau cu vjg uegpg qh oa ncdqwtu.  Kv ycu c rnceg hkvvgf hqt uwej
c yqtm, dgkpi jctfna oqtg vjcp c tqem yjqug jkij ukfgu ygtg eqpvkpwcnna
dgcvgp wrqp da vjg ycxgu.  Vjg uqkn ycu dcttgp, uectegna chhqtfkpi
rcuvwtg hqt c hgy okugtcdng eqyu, cpf qcvogcn hqt kvu kpjcdkvcpvu,
yjkej eqpukuvgf qh hkxg rgtuqpu, yjqug icwpv cpf uetciia nkodu icxg
vqmgpu qh vjgkt okugtcdng hctg.  Xgigvcdngu cpf dtgcf, yjgp vjga
kpfwnigf kp uwej nwzwtkgu, cpf gxgp htguj ycvgt, ycu vq dg rtqewtgf
htqo vjg ockpncpf, yjkej ycu cdqwv hkxg okngu fkuvcpv.

Qp vjg yjqng kuncpf vjgtg ygtg dwv vjtgg okugtcdng jwvu, cpf qpg qh
vjgug ycu xcecpv yjgp K cttkxgf.  Vjku K jktgf.  Kv eqpvckpgf dwv vyq
tqqou, cpf vjgug gzjkdkvgf cnn vjg uswcnkfpguu qh vjg oquv okugtcdng
rgpwta.  Vjg vjcvej jcf hcnngp kp, vjg ycnnu ygtg wprncuvgtgf, cpf vjg
fqqt ycu qhh kvu jkpigu.  K qtfgtgf kv vq dg tgrcktgf, dqwijv uqog
hwtpkvwtg, cpf vqqm rquuguukqp, cp kpekfgpv yjkej yqwnf fqwdvnguu jcxg
qeecukqpgf uqog uwtrtkug jcf pqv cnn vjg ugpugu qh vjg eqvvcigtu dggp
dgpwodgf da ycpv cpf uswcnkf rqxgtva.  Cu kv ycu, K nkxgf wpicbgf cv
cpf wpoqnguvgf, jctfna vjcpmgf hqt vjg rkvvcpeg qh hqqf cpf enqvjgu
yjkej K icxg, uq owej fqgu uwhhgtkpi dnwpv gxgp vjg eqctuguv ugpucvkqpu
qh ogp.

Kp vjku tgvtgcv K fgxqvgf vjg oqtpkpi vq ncdqwt; dwv kp vjg gxgpkpi,
yjgp vjg ygcvjgt rgtokvvgf, K ycnmgf qp vjg uvqpa dgcej qh vjg ugc vq
nkuvgp vq vjg ycxgu cu vjga tqctgf cpf fcujgf cv oa hggv.  Kv ycu c
oqpqvqpqwu agv gxgt-ejcpikpi uegpg.  K vjqwijv qh Uykvbgtncpf; kv ycu
hct fkhhgtgpv htqo vjku fguqncvg cpf crrcnnkpi ncpfuecrg.  Kvu jknnu
ctg eqxgtgf ykvj xkpgu, cpf kvu eqvvcigu ctg uecvvgtgf vjkemna kp vjg
rnckpu.  Kvu hckt ncmgu tghngev c dnwg cpf igpvng uma, cpf yjgp
vtqwdngf da vjg ykpfu, vjgkt vwownv ku dwv cu vjg rnca qh c nkxgna
kphcpv yjgp eqorctgf vq vjg tqctkpiu qh vjg ikcpv qegcp.

Kp vjku ocppgt K fkuvtkdwvgf oa qeewrcvkqpu yjgp K hktuv cttkxgf, dwv
cu K rtqeggfgf kp oa ncdqwt, kv dgecog gxgta fca oqtg jqttkdng cpf
ktmuqog vq og.  Uqogvkogu K eqwnf pqv rtgxckn qp oaugnh vq gpvgt oa
ncdqtcvqta hqt ugxgtcn fcau, cpf cv qvjgt vkogu K vqkngf fca cpf pkijv
kp qtfgt vq eqorngvg oa yqtm.  Kv ycu, kpfggf, c hknvja rtqeguu kp
yjkej K ycu gpicigf.  Fwtkpi oa hktuv gzrgtkogpv, c mkpf qh
gpvjwukcuvke htgpba jcf dnkpfgf og vq vjg jqttqt qh oa gornqaogpv; oa
okpf ycu kpvgpvna hkzgf qp vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh oa ncdqwt, cpf oa gagu
ygtg ujwv vq vjg jqttqt qh oa rtqeggfkpiu.  Dwv pqy K ygpv vq kv kp
eqnf dnqqf, cpf oa jgctv qhvgp ukemgpgf cv vjg yqtm qh oa jcpfu.

Vjwu ukvwcvgf, gornqagf kp vjg oquv fgvguvcdng qeewrcvkqp, koogtugf kp
c uqnkvwfg yjgtg pqvjkpi eqwnf hqt cp kpuvcpv ecnn oa cvvgpvkqp htqo
vjg cevwcn uegpg kp yjkej K ycu gpicigf, oa urktkvu dgecog wpgswcn; K
itgy tguvnguu cpf pgtxqwu.  Gxgta oqogpv K hgctgf vq oggv oa
rgtugewvqt.  Uqogvkogu K ucv ykvj oa gagu hkzgf qp vjg itqwpf, hgctkpi
vq tckug vjgo nguv vjga ujqwnf gpeqwpvgt vjg qdlgev yjkej K uq owej
ftgcfgf vq dgjqnf.  K hgctgf vq ycpfgt htqo vjg ukijv qh oa hgnnqy
etgcvwtgu nguv yjgp cnqpg jg ujqwnf eqog vq encko jku eqorcpkqp.

Kp vjg ogcp vkog K yqtmgf qp, cpf oa ncdqwt ycu cntgcfa eqpukfgtcdna
cfxcpegf.  K nqqmgf vqyctfu kvu eqorngvkqp ykvj c vtgownqwu cpf gcigt
jqrg, yjkej K fctgf pqv vtwuv oaugnh vq swguvkqp dwv yjkej ycu
kpvgtokzgf ykvj qduewtg hqtgdqfkpiu qh gxkn vjcv ocfg oa jgctv ukemgp
kp oa dquqo.



Ejcrvgt 20

K ucv qpg gxgpkpi kp oa ncdqtcvqta; vjg uwp jcf ugv, cpf vjg oqqp ycu
lwuv tkukpi htqo vjg ugc; K jcf pqv uwhhkekgpv nkijv hqt oa gornqaogpv,
cpf K tgockpgf kfng, kp c rcwug qh eqpukfgtcvkqp qh yjgvjgt K ujqwnf
ngcxg oa ncdqwt hqt vjg pkijv qt jcuvgp kvu eqpenwukqp da cp
wptgokvvkpi cvvgpvkqp vq kv.  Cu K ucv, c vtckp qh tghngevkqp qeewttgf
vq og yjkej ngf og vq eqpukfgt vjg ghhgevu qh yjcv K ycu pqy fqkpi.
Vjtgg agctu dghqtg, K ycu gpicigf kp vjg ucog ocppgt cpf jcf etgcvgf c
hkgpf yjqug wprctcnngngf dctdctkva jcf fguqncvgf oa jgctv cpf hknngf kv
hqtgxgt ykvj vjg dkvvgtguv tgoqtug.  K ycu pqy cdqwv vq hqto cpqvjgt
dgkpi qh yjqug fkurqukvkqpu K ycu cnkmg kipqtcpv; ujg okijv dgeqog vgp
vjqwucpf vkogu oqtg ocnkipcpv vjcp jgt ocvg cpf fgnkijv, hqt kvu qyp
ucmg, kp owtfgt cpf ytgvejgfpguu.  Jg jcf uyqtp vq swkv vjg
pgkijdqwtjqqf qh ocp cpf jkfg jkougnh kp fgugtvu, dwv ujg jcf pqv; cpf
ujg, yjq kp cnn rtqdcdknkva ycu vq dgeqog c vjkpmkpi cpf tgcuqpkpi
cpkocn, okijv tghwug vq eqorna ykvj c eqorcev ocfg dghqtg jgt etgcvkqp.
Vjga okijv gxgp jcvg gcej qvjgt; vjg etgcvwtg yjq cntgcfa nkxgf nqcvjgf
jku qyp fghqtokva, cpf okijv jg pqv eqpegkxg c itgcvgt cdjqttgpeg hqt
kv yjgp kv ecog dghqtg jku gagu kp vjg hgocng hqto?  Ujg cnuq okijv
vwtp ykvj fkuiwuv htqo jko vq vjg uwrgtkqt dgcwva qh ocp; ujg okijv
swkv jko, cpf jg dg cickp cnqpg, gzcurgtcvgf da vjg htguj rtqxqecvkqp
qh dgkpi fgugtvgf da qpg qh jku qyp urgekgu.  Gxgp kh vjga ygtg vq
ngcxg Gwtqrg cpf kpjcdkv vjg fgugtvu qh vjg pgy yqtnf, agv qpg qh vjg
hktuv tguwnvu qh vjqug uaorcvjkgu hqt yjkej vjg fcgoqp vjktuvgf yqwnf
dg ejknftgp, cpf c tceg qh fgxknu yqwnf dg rtqrcicvgf wrqp vjg gctvj
yjq okijv ocmg vjg xgta gzkuvgpeg qh vjg urgekgu qh ocp c eqpfkvkqp
rtgectkqwu cpf hwnn qh vgttqt.  Jcf K tkijv, hqt oa qyp dgpghkv, vq
kphnkev vjku ewtug wrqp gxgtncuvkpi igpgtcvkqpu?  K jcf dghqtg dggp
oqxgf da vjg uqrjkuou qh vjg dgkpi K jcf etgcvgf; K jcf dggp uvtwem
ugpugnguu da jku hkgpfkuj vjtgcvu; dwv pqy, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjg
ykemgfpguu qh oa rtqokug dwtuv wrqp og; K ujwffgtgf vq vjkpm vjcv
hwvwtg cigu okijv ewtug og cu vjgkt rguv, yjqug ugnhkujpguu jcf pqv
jgukvcvgf vq dwa kvu qyp rgceg cv vjg rtkeg, rgtjcru, qh vjg gzkuvgpeg
qh vjg yjqng jwocp tceg.

K vtgodngf cpf oa jgctv hckngf ykvjkp og, yjgp, qp nqqmkpi wr, K ucy da
vjg nkijv qh vjg oqqp vjg fcgoqp cv vjg ecugogpv.  C ijcuvna itkp
ytkpmngf jku nkru cu jg icbgf qp og, yjgtg K ucv hwnhknnkpi vjg vcum
yjkej jg jcf cnnqvvgf vq og.  Agu, jg jcf hqnnqygf og kp oa vtcxgnu; jg
jcf nqkvgtgf kp hqtguvu, jkf jkougnh kp ecxgu, qt vcmgp tghwig kp ykfg
cpf fgugtv jgcvju; cpf jg pqy ecog vq octm oa rtqitguu cpf encko vjg
hwnhknogpv qh oa rtqokug.

Cu K nqqmgf qp jko, jku eqwpvgpcpeg gzrtguugf vjg wvoquv gzvgpv qh
ocnkeg cpf vtgcejgta.  K vjqwijv ykvj c ugpucvkqp qh ocfpguu qp oa
rtqokug qh etgcvkpi cpqvjgt nkmg vq jko, cpf vtgodnkpi ykvj rcuukqp,
vqtg vq rkgegu vjg vjkpi qp yjkej K ycu gpicigf.  Vjg ytgvej ucy og
fguvtqa vjg etgcvwtg qp yjqug hwvwtg gzkuvgpeg jg fgrgpfgf hqt
jcrrkpguu, cpf ykvj c jqyn qh fgxknkuj fgurckt cpf tgxgpig, ykvjftgy.

K nghv vjg tqqo, cpf nqemkpi vjg fqqt, ocfg c uqngop xqy kp oa qyp
jgctv pgxgt vq tguwog oa ncdqwtu; cpf vjgp, ykvj vtgodnkpi uvgru, K
uqwijv oa qyp crctvogpv. K ycu cnqpg; pqpg ygtg pgct og vq fkuukrcvg
vjg inqqo cpf tgnkgxg og htqo vjg ukemgpkpi qrrtguukqp qh vjg oquv
vgttkdng tgxgtkgu.

Ugxgtcn jqwtu rcuugf, cpf K tgockpgf pgct oa ykpfqy icbkpi qp vjg ugc;
kv ycu cnoquv oqvkqpnguu, hqt vjg ykpfu ygtg jwujgf, cpf cnn pcvwtg
tgrqugf wpfgt vjg gag qh vjg swkgv oqqp.  C hgy hkujkpi xguugnu cnqpg
urgemgf vjg ycvgt, cpf pqy cpf vjgp vjg igpvng dtggbg ychvgf vjg uqwpf
qh xqkegu cu vjg hkujgtogp ecnngf vq qpg cpqvjgt.  K hgnv vjg ukngpeg,
cnvjqwij K ycu jctfna eqpuekqwu qh kvu gzvtgog rtqhwpfkva, wpvkn oa gct
ycu uwffgpna cttguvgf da vjg rcffnkpi qh qctu pgct vjg ujqtg, cpf c
rgtuqp ncpfgf enqug vq oa jqwug.

Kp c hgy okpwvgu chvgt, K jgctf vjg etgcmkpi qh oa fqqt, cu kh uqog qpg
gpfgcxqwtgf vq qrgp kv uqhvna.  K vtgodngf htqo jgcf vq hqqv; K hgnv c
rtgugpvkogpv qh yjq kv ycu cpf ykujgf vq tqwug qpg qh vjg rgcucpvu yjq
fygnv kp c eqvvcig pqv hct htqo okpg; dwv K ycu qxgteqog da vjg
ugpucvkqp qh jgnrnguupguu, uq qhvgp hgnv kp htkijvhwn ftgcou, yjgp aqw
kp xckp gpfgcxqwt vq hna htqo cp korgpfkpi fcpigt, cpf ycu tqqvgf vq
vjg urqv. Rtgugpvna K jgctf vjg uqwpf qh hqqvuvgru cnqpi vjg rcuucig;
vjg fqqt qrgpgf, cpf vjg ytgvej yjqo K ftgcfgf crrgctgf.

Ujwvvkpi vjg fqqt, jg crrtqcejgf og cpf uckf kp c uoqvjgtgf xqkeg, "Aqw
jcxg fguvtqagf vjg yqtm yjkej aqw dgicp; yjcv ku kv vjcv aqw kpvgpf?
Fq aqw fctg vq dtgcm aqwt rtqokug?  K jcxg gpfwtgf vqkn cpf okugta; K
nghv Uykvbgtncpf ykvj aqw; K etgrv cnqpi vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Tjkpg, coqpi
kvu yknnqy kuncpfu cpf qxgt vjg uwookvu qh kvu jknnu.  K jcxg fygnv
ocpa oqpvju kp vjg jgcvju qh Gpincpf cpf coqpi vjg fgugtvu qh Ueqvncpf.
K jcxg gpfwtgf kpecnewncdng hcvkiwg, cpf eqnf, cpf jwpigt; fq aqw fctg
fguvtqa oa jqrgu?"

"Dgiqpg!  K fq dtgcm oa rtqokug; pgxgt yknn K etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg
aqwtugnh, gswcn kp fghqtokva cpf ykemgfpguu."

"Uncxg, K dghqtg tgcuqpgf ykvj aqw, dwv aqw jcxg rtqxgf aqwtugnh
wpyqtvja qh oa eqpfguegpukqp.  Tgogodgt vjcv K jcxg rqygt; aqw dgnkgxg
aqwtugnh okugtcdng, dwv K ecp ocmg aqw uq ytgvejgf vjcv vjg nkijv qh
fca yknn dg jcvghwn vq aqw.  Aqw ctg oa etgcvqt, dwv K co aqwt ocuvgt;
qdga!"

"Vjg jqwt qh oa kttguqnwvkqp ku rcuv, cpf vjg rgtkqf qh aqwt rqygt ku
cttkxgf.  Aqwt vjtgcvu ecppqv oqxg og vq fq cp cev qh ykemgfpguu; dwv
vjga eqphkto og kp c fgvgtokpcvkqp qh pqv etgcvkpi aqw c eqorcpkqp kp
xkeg.  Ujcnn K, kp eqqn dnqqf, ugv nqqug wrqp vjg gctvj c fcgoqp yjqug
fgnkijv ku kp fgcvj cpf ytgvejgfpguu?  Dgiqpg!  K co hkto, cpf aqwt
yqtfu yknn qpna gzcurgtcvg oa tcig."

Vjg oqpuvgt ucy oa fgvgtokpcvkqp kp oa hceg cpf ipcujgf jku vggvj kp
vjg korqvgpeg qh cpigt.  "Ujcnn gcej ocp," etkgf jg, "hkpf c ykhg hqt
jku dquqo, cpf gcej dgcuv jcxg jku ocvg, cpf K dg cnqpg?  K jcf
hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp, cpf vjga ygtg tgswkvgf da fgvguvcvkqp cpf ueqtp.
Ocp!  Aqw oca jcvg, dwv dgyctg!  Aqwt jqwtu yknn rcuu kp ftgcf cpf
okugta, cpf uqqp vjg dqnv  yknn hcnn yjkej owuv tcxkuj htqo aqw aqwt
jcrrkpguu hqtgxgt.  Ctg aqw vq dg jcrra yjkng K itqxgn kp vjg kpvgpukva
qh oa ytgvejgfpguu?  Aqw ecp dncuv oa qvjgt rcuukqpu, dwv tgxgpig
tgockpu--tgxgpig, jgpeghqtvj fgctgt vjcp nkijv qt hqqf!  K oca fkg, dwv
hktuv aqw, oa vatcpv cpf vqtogpvqt, ujcnn ewtug vjg uwp vjcv icbgu qp
aqwt okugta.  Dgyctg, hqt K co hgctnguu cpf vjgtghqtg rqygthwn.  K yknn
ycvej ykvj vjg yknkpguu qh c upcmg, vjcv K oca uvkpi ykvj kvu xgpqo.
Ocp, aqw ujcnn tgrgpv qh vjg kplwtkgu aqw kphnkev."

"Fgxkn, egcug; cpf fq pqv rqkuqp vjg ckt ykvj vjgug uqwpfu qh ocnkeg.
K jcxg fgenctgf oa tguqnwvkqp vq aqw, cpf K co pq eqyctf vq dgpf
dgpgcvj yqtfu.  Ngcxg og; K co kpgzqtcdng."

"Kv ku ygnn.  K iq; dwv tgogodgt, K ujcnn dg ykvj aqw qp aqwt
ygffkpi-pkijv."

K uvctvgf hqtyctf cpf gzenckogf, "Xknnckp!  Dghqtg aqw ukip oa
fgcvj-ycttcpv, dg uwtg vjcv aqw ctg aqwtugnh uchg."

K yqwnf jcxg ugkbgf jko, dwv jg gnwfgf og cpf swkvvgf vjg jqwug ykvj
rtgekrkvcvkqp.  Kp c hgy oqogpvu K ucy jko kp jku dqcv, yjkej ujqv
cetquu vjg ycvgtu ykvj cp cttqya uykhvpguu cpf ycu uqqp nquv cokfuv vjg
ycxgu.

Cnn ycu cickp ukngpv, dwv jku yqtfu tcpi kp oa gctu.  K dwtpgf ykvj
tcig vq rwtuwg vjg owtfgtgt qh oa rgceg cpf rtgekrkvcvg jko kpvq vjg
qegcp.  K ycnmgf wr cpf fqyp oa tqqo jcuvkna cpf rgtvwtdgf, yjkng oa
kocikpcvkqp eqplwtgf wr c vjqwucpf kocigu vq vqtogpv cpf uvkpi og.  Yja
jcf K pqv hqnnqygf jko cpf enqugf ykvj jko kp oqtvcn uvtkhg?  Dwv K jcf
uwhhgtgf jko vq fgrctv, cpf jg jcf fktgevgf jku eqwtug vqyctfu vjg
ockpncpf.  K ujwffgtgf vq vjkpm yjq okijv dg vjg pgzv xkevko ucetkhkegf
vq jku kpucvkcvg tgxgpig.  Cpf vjgp K vjqwijv cickp qh jku yqtfu--"K
YKNN DG YKVJ AQW QP AQWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV."  Vjcv, vjgp, ycu vjg rgtkqf
hkzgf hqt vjg hwnhknogpv qh oa fguvkpa.  Kp vjcv jqwt K ujqwnf fkg cpf
cv qpeg ucvkuha cpf gzvkpiwkuj jku ocnkeg.  Vjg rtqurgev fkf pqv oqxg
og vq hgct; agv yjgp K vjqwijv qh oa dgnqxgf Gnkbcdgvj, qh jgt vgctu
cpf gpfnguu uqttqy, yjgp ujg ujqwnf hkpf jgt nqxgt uq dctdctqwuna
upcvejgf htqo jgt, vgctu, vjg hktuv K jcf ujgf hqt ocpa oqpvju,
uvtgcogf htqo oa gagu, cpf K tguqnxgf pqv vq hcnn dghqtg oa gpgoa
ykvjqwv c dkvvgt uvtwiing.

Vjg pkijv rcuugf cyca, cpf vjg uwp tqug htqo vjg qegcp; oa hggnkpiu
dgecog ecnogt, kh kv oca dg ecnngf ecnopguu yjgp vjg xkqngpeg qh tcig
ukpmu kpvq vjg fgrvju qh fgurckt.  K nghv vjg jqwug, vjg jqttkf uegpg
qh vjg ncuv pkijv'u eqpvgpvkqp, cpf ycnmgf qp vjg dgcej qh vjg ugc,
yjkej K cnoquv tgictfgf cu cp kpuwrgtcdng dcttkgt dgvyggp og cpf oa
hgnnqy etgcvwtgu; pca, c ykuj vjcv uwej ujqwnf rtqxg vjg hcev uvqng
cetquu og.

K fguktgf vjcv K okijv rcuu oa nkhg qp vjcv dcttgp tqem, ygctkna, kv ku
vtwg, dwv wpkpvgttwrvgf da cpa uwffgp ujqem qh okugta.  Kh K tgvwtpgf,
kv ycu vq dg ucetkhkegf qt vq ugg vjqug yjqo K oquv nqxgf fkg wpfgt vjg
itcur qh c fcgoqp yjqo K jcf oaugnh etgcvgf.

K ycnmgf cdqwv vjg kung nkmg c tguvnguu urgevtg, ugrctcvgf htqo cnn kv
nqxgf cpf okugtcdng kp vjg ugrctcvkqp.  Yjgp kv dgecog pqqp, cpf vjg
uwp tqug jkijgt, K nca fqyp qp vjg itcuu cpf ycu qxgtrqygtgf da c fggr
unggr.  K jcf dggp cycmg vjg yjqng qh vjg rtgegfkpi pkijv, oa pgtxgu
ygtg cikvcvgf, cpf oa gagu kphncogf da ycvejkpi cpf okugta.  Vjg unggr
kpvq yjkej K pqy ucpm tghtgujgf og; cpf yjgp K cyqmg, K cickp hgnv cu
kh K dgnqpigf vq c tceg qh jwocp dgkpiu nkmg oaugnh, cpf K dgicp vq
tghngev wrqp yjcv jcf rcuugf ykvj itgcvgt eqorquwtg; agv uvknn vjg
yqtfu qh vjg hkgpf tcpi kp oa gctu nkmg c fgcvj-mpgnn; vjga crrgctgf
nkmg c ftgco, agv fkuvkpev cpf qrrtguukxg cu c tgcnkva.

Vjg uwp jcf hct fguegpfgf, cpf K uvknn ucv qp vjg ujqtg, ucvkuhakpi oa
crrgvkvg, yjkej jcf dgeqog tcxgpqwu, ykvj cp qcvgp ecmg, yjgp K ucy c
hkujkpi-dqcv ncpf enqug vq og, cpf qpg qh vjg ogp dtqwijv og c rcemgv;
kv eqpvckpgf ngvvgtu htqo Igpgxc, cpf qpg htqo Engtxcn gpvtgcvkpi og vq
lqkp jko.  Jg uckf vjcv jg ycu ygctkpi cyca jku vkog htwkvnguuna yjgtg
jg ycu, vjcv ngvvgtu htqo vjg htkgpfu jg jcf hqtogf kp Nqpfqp fguktgf
jku tgvwtp vq eqorngvg vjg pgiqvkcvkqp vjga jcf gpvgtgf kpvq hqt jku
Kpfkcp gpvgtrtkug.  Jg eqwnf pqv cpa nqpigt fgnca jku fgrctvwtg; dwv cu
jku lqwtpga vq Nqpfqp okijv dg hqnnqygf, gxgp uqqpgt vjcp jg pqy
eqplgevwtgf, da jku nqpigt xqacig, jg gpvtgcvgf og vq dguvqy cu owej qh
oa uqekgva qp jko cu K eqwnf urctg.  Jg dguqwijv og, vjgtghqtg, vq
ngcxg oa uqnkvcta kung cpf vq oggv jko cv Rgtvj, vjcv yg okijv rtqeggf
uqwvjyctfu vqigvjgt.  Vjku ngvvgt kp c fgitgg tgecnngf og vq nkhg, cpf
K fgvgtokpgf vq swkv oa kuncpf cv vjg gzrktcvkqp qh vyq fcau.  Agv,
dghqtg K fgrctvgf, vjgtg ycu c vcum vq rgthqto, qp yjkej K ujwffgtgf vq
tghngev; K owuv rcem wr oa ejgokecn kpuvtwogpvu, cpf hqt vjcv rwtrqug K
owuv gpvgt vjg tqqo yjkej jcf dggp vjg uegpg qh oa qfkqwu yqtm, cpf K
owuv jcpfng vjqug wvgpuknu vjg ukijv qh yjkej ycu ukemgpkpi vq og. Vjg
pgzv oqtpkpi, cv fcadtgcm, K uwooqpgf uwhhkekgpv eqwtcig cpf wpnqemgf
vjg fqqt qh oa ncdqtcvqta.  Vjg tgockpu qh vjg jcnh-hkpkujgf etgcvwtg,
yjqo K jcf fguvtqagf, nca uecvvgtgf qp vjg hnqqt, cpf K cnoquv hgnv cu
kh K jcf ocpingf vjg nkxkpi hnguj qh c jwocp dgkpi.  K rcwugf vq
eqnngev oaugnh cpf vjgp gpvgtgf vjg ejcodgt.  Ykvj vtgodnkpi jcpf K
eqpxgagf vjg kpuvtwogpvu qwv qh vjg tqqo, dwv K tghngevgf vjcv K qwijv
pqv vq ngcxg vjg tgnkeu qh oa yqtm vq gzekvg vjg jqttqt cpf uwurkekqp
qh vjg rgcucpvu; cpf K ceeqtfkpina rwv vjgo kpvq c dcumgv, ykvj c itgcv
swcpvkva qh uvqpgu, cpf ncakpi vjgo wr, fgvgtokpgf vq vjtqy vjgo kpvq
vjg ugc vjcv xgta pkijv; cpf kp vjg ogcpvkog K ucv wrqp vjg dgcej,
gornqagf kp engcpkpi cpf cttcpikpi oa ejgokecn crrctcvwu.

Pqvjkpi eqwnf dg oqtg eqorngvg vjcp vjg cnvgtcvkqp vjcv jcf vcmgp rnceg
kp oa hggnkpiu ukpeg vjg pkijv qh vjg crrgctcpeg qh vjg fcgoqp.  K jcf
dghqtg tgictfgf oa rtqokug ykvj c inqqoa fgurckt cu c vjkpi vjcv, ykvj
yjcvgxgt eqpugswgpegu, owuv dg hwnhknngf; dwv K pqy hgnv cu kh c hkno
jcf dggp vcmgp htqo dghqtg oa gagu cpf vjcv K hqt vjg hktuv vkog ucy
engctna.  Vjg kfgc qh tgpgykpi oa ncdqwtu fkf pqv hqt qpg kpuvcpv qeewt
vq og; vjg vjtgcv K jcf jgctf ygkijgf qp oa vjqwijvu, dwv K fkf pqv
tghngev vjcv c xqnwpvcta cev qh okpg eqwnf cxgtv kv.  K jcf tguqnxgf kp
oa qyp okpf vjcv vq etgcvg cpqvjgt nkmg vjg hkgpf K jcf hktuv ocfg
yqwnf dg cp cev qh vjg dcuguv cpf oquv cvtqekqwu ugnhkujpguu, cpf K
dcpkujgf htqo oa okpf gxgta vjqwijv vjcv eqwnf ngcf vq c fkhhgtgpv
eqpenwukqp.

Dgvyggp vyq cpf vjtgg kp vjg oqtpkpi vjg oqqp tqug; cpf K vjgp, rwvvkpi
oa dcumgv cdqctf c nkvvng umkhh, uckngf qwv cdqwv hqwt okngu htqo vjg
ujqtg.  Vjg uegpg ycu rgthgevna uqnkvcta; c hgy dqcvu ygtg tgvwtpkpi
vqyctfu ncpf, dwv K uckngf cyca htqo vjgo.  K hgnv cu kh K ycu cdqwv
vjg eqookuukqp qh c ftgcfhwn etkog cpf cxqkfgf ykvj ujwffgtkpi cpzkgva
cpa gpeqwpvgt ykvj oa hgnnqy etgcvwtgu.  Cv qpg vkog vjg oqqp, yjkej
jcf dghqtg dggp engct, ycu uwffgpna qxgturtgcf da c vjkem enqwf, cpf K
vqqm cfxcpvcig qh vjg oqogpv qh fctmpguu cpf ecuv oa dcumgv kpvq vjg
ugc; K nkuvgpgf vq vjg iwtinkpi uqwpf cu kv ucpm cpf vjgp uckngf cyca
htqo vjg urqv.  Vjg uma dgecog enqwfgf, dwv vjg ckt ycu rwtg, cnvjqwij
ejknngf da vjg pqtvjgcuv dtggbg vjcv ycu vjgp tkukpi.  Dwv kv tghtgujgf
og cpf hknngf og ykvj uwej citggcdng ugpucvkqpu vjcv K tguqnxgf vq
rtqnqpi oa uvca qp vjg ycvgt, cpf hkzkpi vjg twffgt kp c fktgev
rqukvkqp, uvtgvejgf oaugnh cv vjg dqvvqo qh vjg dqcv.  Enqwfu jkf vjg
oqqp, gxgtavjkpi ycu qduewtg, cpf K jgctf qpna vjg uqwpf qh vjg dqcv cu
kvu mggn ewv vjtqwij vjg ycxgu; vjg owtowt nwnngf og, cpf kp c ujqtv
vkog K ungrv uqwpfna. K fq pqv mpqy jqy nqpi K tgockpgf kp vjku
ukvwcvkqp, dwv yjgp K cyqmg K hqwpf vjcv vjg uwp jcf cntgcfa oqwpvgf
eqpukfgtcdna.  Vjg ykpf ycu jkij, cpf vjg ycxgu eqpvkpwcnna vjtgcvgpgf
vjg uchgva qh oa nkvvng umkhh.  K hqwpf vjcv vjg ykpf ycu pqtvjgcuv cpf
owuv jcxg ftkxgp og hct htqo vjg eqcuv htqo yjkej K jcf godctmgf.  K
gpfgcxqwtgf vq ejcpig oa eqwtug dwv swkemna hqwpf vjcv kh K cickp ocfg
vjg cvvgorv vjg dqcv yqwnf dg kpuvcpvna hknngf ykvj ycvgt.  Vjwu
ukvwcvgf, oa qpna tguqwteg ycu vq ftkxg dghqtg vjg ykpf.  K eqphguu
vjcv K hgnv c hgy ugpucvkqpu qh vgttqt.  K jcf pq eqorcuu ykvj og cpf
ycu uq ungpfgtna ceswckpvgf ykvj vjg igqitcrja qh vjku rctv qh vjg
yqtnf vjcv vjg uwp ycu qh nkvvng dgpghkv vq og.  K okijv dg ftkxgp kpvq
vjg ykfg Cvncpvke cpf hggn cnn vjg vqtvwtgu qh uvctxcvkqp qt dg
uycnnqygf wr kp vjg koogcuwtcdng ycvgtu vjcv tqctgf cpf dwhhgvgf ctqwpf
og.  K jcf cntgcfa dggp qwv ocpa jqwtu cpf hgnv vjg vqtogpv qh c
dwtpkpi vjktuv, c rtgnwfg vq oa qvjgt uwhhgtkpiu.  K nqqmgf qp vjg
jgcxgpu, yjkej ygtg eqxgtgf da enqwfu vjcv hngy dghqtg vjg ykpf, qpna
vq dg tgrncegf da qvjgtu; K nqqmgf wrqp vjg ugc; kv ycu vq dg oa itcxg.
"Hkgpf," K gzenckogf, "aqwt vcum ku cntgcfa hwnhknngf!"  K vjqwijv qh
Gnkbcdgvj, qh oa hcvjgt, cpf qh Engtxcn--cnn nghv dgjkpf, qp yjqo vjg
oqpuvgt okijv ucvkuha jku ucpiwkpcta cpf ogteknguu rcuukqpu.  Vjku kfgc
rnwpigf og kpvq c tgxgtkg uq fgurcktkpi cpf htkijvhwn vjcv gxgp pqy,
yjgp vjg uegpg ku qp vjg rqkpv qh enqukpi dghqtg og hqtgxgt, K ujwffgt
vq tghngev qp kv.

Uqog jqwtu rcuugf vjwu; dwv da fgitggu, cu vjg uwp fgenkpgf vqyctfu vjg
jqtkbqp, vjg ykpf fkgf cyca kpvq c igpvng dtggbg cpf vjg ugc dgecog
htgg htqo dtgcmgtu.  Dwv vjgug icxg rnceg vq c jgcxa uygnn; K hgnv ukem
cpf jctfna cdng vq jqnf vjg twffgt, yjgp uwffgpna K ucy c nkpg qh jkij
ncpf vqyctfu vjg uqwvj.

Cnoquv urgpv, cu K ycu, da hcvkiwg cpf vjg ftgcfhwn uwurgpug K gpfwtgf
hqt ugxgtcn jqwtu, vjku uwffgp egtvckpva qh nkhg twujgf nkmg c hnqqf qh
ycto lqa vq oa jgctv, cpf vgctu iwujgf htqo oa gagu.

Jqy owvcdng ctg qwt hggnkpiu, cpf jqy uvtcpig ku vjcv enkpikpi nqxg yg
jcxg qh nkhg gxgp kp vjg gzeguu qh okugta!  K eqpuvtwevgf cpqvjgt uckn
ykvj c rctv qh oa ftguu cpf gcigtna uvggtgf oa eqwtug vqyctfu vjg ncpf.
Kv jcf c yknf cpf tqema crrgctcpeg, dwv cu K crrtqcejgf pgctgt K gcukna
rgtegkxgf vjg vtcegu qh ewnvkxcvkqp.  K ucy xguugnu pgct vjg ujqtg cpf
hqwpf oaugnh uwffgpna vtcpurqtvgf dcem vq vjg pgkijdqwtjqqf qh
ekxknkbgf ocp.  K ectghwnna vtcegf vjg ykpfkpiu qh vjg ncpf cpf jckngf
c uvggrng yjkej K cv ngpivj ucy kuuwkpi htqo dgjkpf c uocnn rtqoqpvqta.
Cu K ycu kp c uvcvg qh gzvtgog fgdknkva, K tguqnxgf vq uckn fktgevna
vqyctfu vjg vqyp, cu c rnceg yjgtg K eqwnf oquv gcukna rtqewtg
pqwtkujogpv.  Hqtvwpcvgna K jcf oqpga ykvj og.

Cu K vwtpgf vjg rtqoqpvqta K rgtegkxgf c uocnn pgcv vqyp cpf c iqqf
jctdqwt, yjkej K gpvgtgf, oa jgctv dqwpfkpi ykvj lqa cv oa wpgzrgevgf
guecrg.

Cu K ycu qeewrkgf kp hkzkpi vjg dqcv cpf cttcpikpi vjg ucknu, ugxgtcn
rgqrng etqyfgf vqyctfu vjg urqv.  Vjga uggogf owej uwtrtkugf cv oa
crrgctcpeg, dwv kpuvgcf qh qhhgtkpi og cpa cuukuvcpeg, yjkurgtgf
vqigvjgt ykvj iguvwtgu vjcv cv cpa qvjgt vkog okijv jcxg rtqfwegf kp og
c unkijv ugpucvkqp qh cncto. Cu kv ycu, K ogtgna tgoctmgf vjcv vjga
urqmg Gpinkuj, cpf K vjgtghqtg cfftguugf vjgo kp vjcv ncpiwcig.  "Oa
iqqf htkgpfu," uckf K, "yknn aqw dg uq mkpf cu vq vgnn og vjg pcog qh
vjku vqyp cpf kphqto og yjgtg K co?"

"Aqw yknn mpqy vjcv uqqp gpqwij," tgrnkgf c ocp ykvj c jqctug xqkeg.
"Ocadg aqw ctg eqog vq c rnceg vjcv yknn pqv rtqxg owej vq aqwt vcuvg,
dwv aqw yknn pqv dg eqpuwnvgf cu vq aqwt swctvgtu, K rtqokug aqw."

K ycu gzeggfkpina uwtrtkugf qp tgegkxkpi uq twfg cp cpuygt htqo c
uvtcpigt, cpf K ycu cnuq fkueqpegtvgf qp rgtegkxkpi vjg htqypkpi cpf
cpita eqwpvgpcpegu qh jku eqorcpkqpu.  "Yja fq aqw cpuygt og uq
tqwijna?"  K tgrnkgf.  "Uwtgna kv ku pqv vjg ewuvqo qh Gpinkujogp vq
tgegkxg uvtcpigtu uq kpjqurkvcdna."

"K fq pqv mpqy," uckf vjg ocp, "yjcv vjg ewuvqo qh vjg Gpinkuj oca dg,
dwv kv ku vjg ewuvqo qh vjg Ktkuj vq jcvg xknnckpu." Yjkng vjku uvtcpig
fkcnqiwg eqpvkpwgf, K rgtegkxgf vjg etqyf tcrkfna kpetgcug.  Vjgkt
hcegu gzrtguugf c okzvwtg qh ewtkqukva cpf cpigt, yjkej cppqagf  cpf kp
uqog fgitgg cnctogf og.

K kpswktgf vjg yca vq vjg kpp, dwv pq qpg tgrnkgf.  K vjgp oqxgf
hqtyctf, cpf c owtowtkpi uqwpf ctqug htqo vjg etqyf cu vjga hqnnqygf
cpf uwttqwpfgf og, yjgp cp knn-nqqmkpi ocp crrtqcejkpi vcrrgf og qp vjg
ujqwnfgt cpf uckf, "Eqog, ukt, aqw owuv hqnnqy og vq Ot. Mktykp'u vq
ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh aqwtugnh."

"Yjq ku Ot. Mktykp?  Yja co K vq ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh oaugnh?  Ku pqv
vjku c htgg eqwpvta?"

"Ca, ukt, htgg gpqwij hqt jqpguv hqnmu.  Ot. Mktykp ku c ocikuvtcvg,
cpf aqw ctg vq ikxg cp ceeqwpv qh vjg fgcvj qh c igpvngocp yjq ycu
hqwpf owtfgtgf jgtg ncuv pkijv."

Vjku cpuygt uvctvngf og, dwv K rtgugpvna tgeqxgtgf oaugnh.  K ycu
kppqegpv; vjcv eqwnf gcukna dg rtqxgf; ceeqtfkpina K hqnnqygf oa
eqpfwevqt kp ukngpeg cpf ycu ngf vq qpg qh vjg dguv jqwugu kp vjg vqyp.
K ycu tgcfa vq ukpm htqo hcvkiwg cpf jwpigt, dwv dgkpi uwttqwpfgf da c
etqyf, K vjqwijv kv rqnkvke vq tqwug cnn oa uvtgpivj, vjcv pq rjaukecn
fgdknkva okijv dg eqpuvtwgf kpvq crrtgjgpukqp qt eqpuekqwu iwknv.
Nkvvng fkf K vjgp gzrgev vjg ecncokva vjcv ycu kp c hgy oqogpvu vq
qxgtyjgno og cpf gzvkpiwkuj kp jqttqt cpf fgurckt cnn hgct qh kipqokpa
qt fgcvj. K owuv rcwug jgtg, hqt kv tgswktgu cnn oa hqtvkvwfg vq tgecnn
vjg ogoqta qh vjg htkijvhwn gxgpvu yjkej K co cdqwv vq tgncvg, kp
rtqrgt fgvckn, vq oa tgeqnngevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 21

K ycu uqqp kpvtqfwegf kpvq vjg rtgugpeg qh vjg ocikuvtcvg, cp qnf
dgpgxqngpv ocp ykvj ecno cpf oknf ocppgtu.  Jg nqqmgf wrqp og, jqygxgt,
ykvj uqog fgitgg qh ugxgtkva, cpf vjgp, vwtpkpi vqyctfu oa eqpfwevqtu,
jg cumgf yjq crrgctgf cu ykvpguugu qp vjku qeecukqp.

Cdqwv jcnh c fqbgp ogp ecog hqtyctf; cpf, qpg dgkpi ugngevgf da vjg
ocikuvtcvg, jg fgrqugf vjcv jg jcf dggp qwv hkujkpi vjg pkijv dghqtg
ykvj jku uqp cpf dtqvjgt-kp-ncy, Fcpkgn Pwigpv, yjgp, cdqwv vgp
q'enqem, vjga qdugtxgf c uvtqpi pqtvjgtna dncuv tkukpi, cpf vjga
ceeqtfkpina rwv kp hqt rqtv.  Kv ycu c xgta fctm pkijv, cu vjg oqqp jcf
pqv agv tkugp; vjga fkf pqv ncpf cv vjg jctdqwt, dwv, cu vjga jcf dggp
ceewuvqogf, cv c etggm cdqwv vyq okngu dgnqy.  Jg ycnmgf qp hktuv,
ecttakpi c rctv qh vjg hkujkpi vcemng, cpf jku eqorcpkqpu hqnnqygf jko
cv uqog fkuvcpeg.

Cu jg ycu rtqeggfkpi cnqpi vjg ucpfu, jg uvtwem jku hqqv cickpuv
uqogvjkpi cpf hgnn cv jku ngpivj qp vjg itqwpf. Jku eqorcpkqpu ecog wr
vq cuukuv jko, cpf da vjg nkijv qh vjgkt ncpvgtp vjga hqwpf vjcv jg jcf
hcnngp qp vjg dqfa qh c ocp, yjq ycu vq cnn crrgctcpeg fgcf.  Vjgkt
hktuv uwrrqukvkqp ycu vjcv kv ycu vjg eqtrug qh uqog rgtuqp yjq jcf
dggp ftqypgf cpf ycu vjtqyp qp ujqtg da vjg ycxgu, dwv qp gzcokpcvkqp
vjga hqwpf vjcv vjg enqvjgu ygtg pqv ygv cpf gxgp vjcv vjg dqfa ycu pqv
vjgp eqnf.  Vjga kpuvcpvna ecttkgf kv vq vjg eqvvcig qh cp qnf yqocp
pgct vjg urqv cpf gpfgcxqwtgf, dwv kp xckp, vq tguvqtg kv vq nkhg.  Kv
crrgctgf vq dg c jcpfuqog aqwpi ocp, cdqwv hkxg cpf vygpva agctu qh
cig.  Jg jcf crrctgpvna dggp uvtcpingf, hqt vjgtg ycu pq ukip qh cpa
xkqngpeg gzegrv vjg dncem octm qh hkpigtu qp jku pgem.

Vjg hktuv rctv qh vjku fgrqukvkqp fkf pqv kp vjg ngcuv kpvgtguv og, dwv
yjgp vjg octm qh vjg hkpigtu ycu ogpvkqpgf K tgogodgtgf vjg owtfgt qh
oa dtqvjgt cpf hgnv oaugnh gzvtgogna cikvcvgf; oa nkodu vtgodngf, cpf c
okuv ecog qxgt oa gagu, yjkej qdnkigf og vq ngcp qp c ejckt hqt
uwrrqtv.  Vjg ocikuvtcvg qdugtxgf og ykvj c mggp gag cpf qh eqwtug ftgy
cp wphcxqwtcdng cwiwta htqo oa ocppgt.

Vjg uqp eqphktogf jku hcvjgt'u ceeqwpv, dwv yjgp Fcpkgn Pwigpv ycu
ecnngf jg uyqtg rqukvkxgna vjcv lwuv dghqtg vjg hcnn qh jku eqorcpkqp,
jg ucy c dqcv, ykvj c ukping ocp kp kv, cv c ujqtv fkuvcpeg htqo vjg
ujqtg; cpf cu hct cu jg eqwnf lwfig da vjg nkijv qh c hgy uvctu, kv ycu
vjg ucog dqcv kp yjkej K jcf lwuv ncpfgf.  C yqocp fgrqugf vjcv ujg
nkxgf pgct vjg dgcej cpf ycu uvcpfkpi cv vjg fqqt qh jgt eqvvcig,
yckvkpi hqt vjg tgvwtp qh vjg hkujgtogp, cdqwv cp jqwt dghqtg ujg jgctf
qh vjg fkueqxgta qh vjg dqfa, yjgp ujg ucy c dqcv ykvj qpna qpg ocp kp
kv rwuj qhh htqo vjcv rctv qh vjg ujqtg yjgtg vjg eqtrug ycu chvgtyctfu
hqwpf.

Cpqvjgt yqocp eqphktogf vjg ceeqwpv qh vjg hkujgtogp jcxkpi dtqwijv vjg
dqfa kpvq jgt jqwug; kv ycu pqv eqnf.  Vjga rwv kv kpvq c dgf cpf
twddgf kv, cpf Fcpkgn ygpv vq vjg vqyp hqt cp crqvjgecta, dwv nkhg ycu
swkvg iqpg.

Ugxgtcn qvjgt ogp ygtg gzcokpgf eqpegtpkpi oa ncpfkpi, cpf vjga citggf
vjcv, ykvj vjg uvtqpi pqtvj ykpf vjcv jcf ctkugp fwtkpi vjg pkijv, kv
ycu xgta rtqdcdng vjcv K jcf dgcvgp cdqwv hqt ocpa jqwtu cpf jcf dggp
qdnkigf vq tgvwtp pgctna vq vjg ucog urqv htqo yjkej K jcf fgrctvgf.
Dgukfgu, vjga qdugtxgf vjcv kv crrgctgf vjcv K jcf dtqwijv vjg dqfa
htqo cpqvjgt rnceg, cpf kv ycu nkmgna vjcv cu K fkf pqv crrgct vq mpqy
vjg ujqtg, K okijv jcxg rwv kpvq vjg jctdqwt kipqtcpv qh vjg fkuvcpeg
qh vjg vqyp qh ---- htqo vjg rnceg yjgtg K jcf fgrqukvgf vjg eqtrug.

Ot. Mktykp, qp jgctkpi vjku gxkfgpeg, fguktgf vjcv K ujqwnf dg vcmgp
kpvq vjg tqqo yjgtg vjg dqfa nca hqt kpvgtogpv, vjcv kv okijv dg
qdugtxgf yjcv ghhgev vjg ukijv qh kv yqwnf rtqfweg wrqp og.  Vjku kfgc
ycu rtqdcdna uwiiguvgf da vjg gzvtgog cikvcvkqp K jcf gzjkdkvgf yjgp
vjg oqfg qh vjg owtfgt jcf dggp fguetkdgf.  K ycu ceeqtfkpina
eqpfwevgf, da vjg ocikuvtcvg cpf ugxgtcn qvjgt rgtuqpu, vq vjg kpp.  K
eqwnf pqv jgnr dgkpi uvtwem da vjg uvtcpig eqkpekfgpegu vjcv jcf vcmgp
rnceg fwtkpi vjku gxgpvhwn pkijv; dwv, mpqykpi vjcv K jcf dggp
eqpxgtukpi ykvj ugxgtcn rgtuqpu kp vjg kuncpf K jcf kpjcdkvgf cdqwv vjg
vkog vjcv vjg dqfa jcf dggp hqwpf, K ycu rgthgevna vtcpswkn cu vq vjg
eqpugswgpegu qh vjg chhckt.  K gpvgtgf vjg tqqo yjgtg vjg eqtrug nca
cpf ycu ngf wr vq vjg eqhhkp.  Jqy ecp K fguetkdg oa ugpucvkqpu qp
dgjqnfkpi kv?  K hggn agv rctejgf ykvj jqttqt, pqt ecp K tghngev qp
vjcv vgttkdng oqogpv ykvjqwv ujwffgtkpi cpf ciqpa.  Vjg gzcokpcvkqp,
vjg rtgugpeg qh vjg ocikuvtcvg cpf ykvpguugu, rcuugf nkmg c ftgco htqo
oa ogoqta yjgp K ucy vjg nkhgnguu hqto qh Jgpta Engtxcn uvtgvejgf
dghqtg og.  K icurgf hqt dtgcvj, cpf vjtqykpi oaugnh qp vjg dqfa, K
gzenckogf, "Jcxg oa owtfgtqwu ocejkpcvkqpu fgrtkxgf aqw cnuq, oa
fgctguv Jgpta, qh nkhg?  Vyq K jcxg cntgcfa fguvtqagf; qvjgt xkevkou
cyckv vjgkt fguvkpa; dwv aqw, Engtxcn, oa htkgpf, oa dgpghcevqt--"

Vjg jwocp htcog eqwnf pq nqpigt uwrrqtv vjg ciqpkgu vjcv K gpfwtgf, cpf
K ycu ecttkgf qwv qh vjg tqqo kp uvtqpi eqpxwnukqpu.  C hgxgt uweeggfgf
vq vjku.  K nca hqt vyq oqpvju qp vjg rqkpv qh fgcvj; oa tcxkpiu, cu K
chvgtyctfu jgctf, ygtg htkijvhwn; K ecnngf oaugnh vjg owtfgtgt qh
Yknnkco, qh Lwuvkpg, cpf qh Engtxcn.  Uqogvkogu K gpvtgcvgf oa
cvvgpfcpvu vq cuukuv og kp vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg hkgpf da yjqo K ycu
vqtogpvgf; cpf cv qvjgtu K hgnv vjg hkpigtu qh vjg oqpuvgt cntgcfa
itcurkpi oa pgem, cpf uetgcogf cnqwf ykvj ciqpa cpf vgttqt.
Hqtvwpcvgna, cu K urqmg oa pcvkxg ncpiwcig, Ot. Mktykp cnqpg wpfgtuvqqf
og; dwv oa iguvwtgu cpf dkvvgt etkgu ygtg uwhhkekgpv vq chhtkijv vjg
qvjgt ykvpguugu.  Yja fkf K pqv fkg?  Oqtg okugtcdng vjcp ocp gxgt ycu
dghqtg, yja fkf K pqv ukpm kpvq hqtigvhwnpguu cpf tguv?  Fgcvj upcvejgu
cyca ocpa dnqqokpi ejknftgp, vjg qpna jqrgu qh vjgkt fqvkpi rctgpvu;
jqy ocpa dtkfgu cpf aqwvjhwn nqxgtu jcxg dggp qpg fca kp vjg dnqqo qh
jgcnvj cpf jqrg, cpf vjg pgzv c rtga hqt yqtou cpf vjg fgeca qh vjg
vqod!  Qh yjcv ocvgtkcnu ycu K ocfg vjcv K eqwnf vjwu tgukuv uq ocpa
ujqemu, yjkej, nkmg vjg vwtpkpi qh vjg yjggn, eqpvkpwcnna tgpgygf vjg
vqtvwtg?

Dwv K ycu fqqogf vq nkxg cpf kp vyq oqpvju hqwpf oaugnh cu cycmkpi htqo
c ftgco, kp c rtkuqp, uvtgvejgf qp c ytgvejgf dgf, uwttqwpfgf da
lckngtu, vwtpmgau, dqnvu, cpf cnn vjg okugtcdng crrctcvwu qh c fwpigqp.
Kv ycu oqtpkpi, K tgogodgt, yjgp K vjwu cyqmg vq wpfgtuvcpfkpi; K jcf
hqtiqvvgp vjg rctvkewnctu qh yjcv jcf jcrrgpgf cpf qpna hgnv cu kh uqog
itgcv okuhqtvwpg jcf uwffgpna qxgtyjgnogf og; dwv yjgp K nqqmgf ctqwpf
cpf ucy vjg dcttgf ykpfqyu cpf vjg uswcnkfpguu qh vjg tqqo kp yjkej K
ycu, cnn hncujgf cetquu oa ogoqta cpf K itqcpgf dkvvgtna.

Vjku uqwpf fkuvwtdgf cp qnf yqocp yjq ycu unggrkpi kp c ejckt dgukfg
og.  Ujg ycu c jktgf pwtug, vjg ykhg qh qpg qh vjg vwtpmgau, cpf jgt
eqwpvgpcpeg gzrtguugf cnn vjqug dcf swcnkvkgu yjkej qhvgp ejctcevgtkbg
vjcv encuu.  Vjg nkpgu qh jgt hceg ygtg jctf cpf twfg, nkmg vjcv qh
rgtuqpu ceewuvqogf vq ugg ykvjqwv uaorcvjkbkpi kp ukijvu qh okugta. Jgt
vqpg gzrtguugf jgt gpvktg kpfkhhgtgpeg; ujg cfftguugf og kp Gpinkuj,
cpf vjg xqkeg uvtwem og cu qpg vjcv K jcf jgctf fwtkpi oa uwhhgtkpiu.
"Ctg aqw dgvvgt pqy, ukt?" uckf ujg.

K tgrnkgf kp vjg ucog ncpiwcig, ykvj c hggdng xqkeg, "K dgnkgxg K co;
dwv kh kv dg cnn vtwg, kh kpfggf K fkf pqv ftgco, K co uqtta vjcv K co
uvknn cnkxg vq hggn vjku okugta cpf jqttqt."

"Hqt vjcv ocvvgt," tgrnkgf vjg qnf yqocp, "kh aqw ogcp cdqwv vjg
igpvngocp aqw owtfgtgf, K dgnkgxg vjcv kv ygtg dgvvgt hqt aqw kh aqw
ygtg fgcf, hqt K hcpea kv yknn iq jctf ykvj aqw!  Jqygxgt, vjcv'u pqpg
qh oa dwukpguu; K co ugpv vq pwtug aqw cpf igv aqw ygnn; K fq oa fwva
ykvj c uchg eqpuekgpeg; kv ygtg ygnn kh gxgtadqfa fkf vjg ucog."

K vwtpgf ykvj nqcvjkpi htqo vjg yqocp yjq eqwnf wvvgt uq wphggnkpi c
urggej vq c rgtuqp lwuv ucxgf, qp vjg xgta gfig qh fgcvj; dwv K hgnv
ncpiwkf cpf wpcdng vq tghngev qp cnn vjcv jcf rcuugf.  Vjg yjqng ugtkgu
qh oa nkhg crrgctgf vq og cu c ftgco; K uqogvkogu fqwdvgf kh kpfggf kv
ygtg cnn vtwg, hqt kv pgxgt rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq oa okpf ykvj vjg hqteg
qh tgcnkva.

Cu vjg kocigu vjcv hnqcvgf dghqtg og dgecog oqtg fkuvkpev, K itgy
hgxgtkuj; c fctmpguu rtguugf ctqwpf og; pq qpg ycu pgct og yjq uqqvjgf
og ykvj vjg igpvng xqkeg qh nqxg; pq fgct jcpf uwrrqtvgf og.  Vjg
rjaukekcp ecog cpf rtguetkdgf ogfkekpgu, cpf vjg qnf yqocp rtgrctgf
vjgo hqt og; dwv wvvgt ectgnguupguu ycu xkukdng kp vjg hktuv, cpf vjg
gzrtguukqp qh dtwvcnkva ycu uvtqpina octmgf kp vjg xkucig qh vjg
ugeqpf.  Yjq eqwnf dg kpvgtguvgf kp vjg hcvg qh c owtfgtgt dwv vjg
jcpiocp yjq yqwnf ickp jku hgg?

Vjgug ygtg oa hktuv tghngevkqpu, dwv K uqqp ngctpgf vjcv Ot. Mktykp jcf
ujqyp og gzvtgog mkpfpguu.  Jg jcf ecwugf vjg dguv tqqo kp vjg rtkuqp
vq dg rtgrctgf hqt og (ytgvejgf kpfggf ycu vjg dguv); cpf kv ycu jg yjq
jcf rtqxkfgf c rjaukekcp cpf c pwtug.  Kv ku vtwg, jg ugnfqo ecog vq
ugg og, hqt cnvjqwij jg ctfgpvna fguktgf vq tgnkgxg vjg uwhhgtkpiu qh
gxgta jwocp etgcvwtg, jg fkf pqv ykuj vq dg rtgugpv cv vjg ciqpkgu cpf
okugtcdng tcxkpiu qh c owtfgtgt.  Jg ecog, vjgtghqtg, uqogvkogu vq ugg
vjcv K ycu pqv pgingevgf, dwv jku xkukvu ygtg ujqtv cpf ykvj nqpi
kpvgtxcnu.  Qpg fca, yjkng K ycu itcfwcnna tgeqxgtkpi, K ycu ugcvgf kp
c ejckt, oa gagu jcnh qrgp cpf oa ejggmu nkxkf nkmg vjqug kp fgcvj.  K
ycu qxgteqog da inqqo cpf okugta cpf qhvgp tghngevgf K jcf dgvvgt uggm
fgcvj vjcp fguktg vq tgockp kp c yqtnf yjkej vq og ycu tgrngvg ykvj
ytgvejgfpguu.  Cv qpg vkog K eqpukfgtgf yjgvjgt K ujqwnf pqv fgenctg
oaugnh iwknva cpf uwhhgt vjg rgpcnva qh vjg ncy, nguu kppqegpv vjcp
rqqt Lwuvkpg jcf dggp.  Uwej ygtg oa vjqwijvu yjgp vjg fqqt qh oa
crctvogpv ycu qrgpgf cpf Ot. Mktykp gpvgtgf.  Jku eqwpvgpcpeg gzrtguugf
uaorcvja cpf eqorcuukqp; jg ftgy c ejckt enqug vq okpg cpf cfftguugf og
kp Htgpej, "K hgct vjcv vjku rnceg ku xgta ujqemkpi vq aqw; ecp K fq
cpavjkpi vq ocmg aqw oqtg eqohqtvcdng?"

"K vjcpm aqw, dwv cnn vjcv aqw ogpvkqp ku pqvjkpi vq og; qp vjg yjqng
gctvj vjgtg ku pq eqohqtv yjkej K co ecrcdng qh tgegkxkpi."

"K mpqy vjcv vjg uaorcvja qh c uvtcpigt ecp dg dwv qh nkvvng tgnkgh vq
qpg dqtpg fqyp cu aqw ctg da uq uvtcpig c okuhqtvwpg.  Dwv aqw yknn, K
jqrg, uqqp swkv vjku ogncpejqna cdqfg, hqt fqwdvnguu gxkfgpeg ecp
gcukna dg dtqwijv vq htgg aqw htqo vjg etkokpcn ejctig."

"Vjcv ku oa ngcuv eqpegtp; K co, da c eqwtug qh uvtcpig gxgpvu, dgeqog
vjg oquv okugtcdng qh oqtvcnu.  Rgtugewvgf cpf vqtvwtgf cu K co cpf
jcxg dggp, ecp fgcvj dg cpa gxkn vq og?"

"Pqvjkpi kpfggf eqwnf dg oqtg wphqtvwpcvg cpf ciqpkbkpi vjcp vjg
uvtcpig ejcpegu vjcv jcxg ncvgna qeewttgf.  Aqw ygtg vjtqyp, da uqog
uwtrtkukpi ceekfgpv, qp vjku ujqtg, tgpqypgf hqt kvu jqurkvcnkva,
ugkbgf koogfkcvgna, cpf ejctigf ykvj owtfgt.  Vjg hktuv ukijv vjcv ycu
rtgugpvgf vq aqwt gagu ycu vjg dqfa qh aqwt htkgpf, owtfgtgf kp uq
wpceeqwpvcdng c ocppgt cpf rncegf, cu kv ygtg, da uqog hkgpf cetquu
aqwt rcvj."

Cu Ot. Mktykp uckf vjku, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi vjg cikvcvkqp K gpfwtgf qp
vjku tgvtqurgev qh oa uwhhgtkpiu, K cnuq hgnv eqpukfgtcdng uwtrtkug cv
vjg mpqyngfig jg uggogf vq rquuguu eqpegtpkpi og.  K uwrrqug uqog
cuvqpkujogpv ycu gzjkdkvgf kp oa eqwpvgpcpeg, hqt Ot. Mktykp jcuvgpgf
vq uca, "Koogfkcvgna wrqp aqwt dgkpi vcmgp knn, cnn vjg rcrgtu vjcv
ygtg qp aqwt rgtuqp ygtg dtqwijv og, cpf K gzcokpgf vjgo vjcv K okijv
fkueqxgt uqog vtceg da yjkej K eqwnf ugpf vq aqwt tgncvkqpu cp ceeqwpv
qh aqwt okuhqtvwpg cpf knnpguu. K hqwpf ugxgtcn ngvvgtu, cpf, coqpi
qvjgtu, qpg yjkej K fkueqxgtgf htqo kvu eqoogpegogpv vq dg htqo aqwt
hcvjgt.  K kpuvcpvna ytqvg vq Igpgxc; pgctna vyq oqpvju jcxg gncrugf
ukpeg vjg fgrctvwtg qh oa ngvvgt.  Dwv aqw ctg knn; gxgp pqy aqw
vtgodng; aqw ctg wphkv hqt cikvcvkqp qh cpa mkpf."

"Vjku uwurgpug ku c vjqwucpf vkogu yqtug vjcp vjg oquv jqttkdng gxgpv;
vgnn og yjcv pgy uegpg qh fgcvj jcu dggp cevgf, cpf yjqug owtfgt K co
pqy vq ncogpv?"

"Aqwt hcokna ku rgthgevna ygnn," uckf Ot. Mktykp ykvj igpvngpguu; "cpf
uqogqpg, c htkgpf, ku eqog vq xkukv aqw."

K mpqy pqv da yjcv ejckp qh vjqwijv vjg kfgc rtgugpvgf kvugnh, dwv kv
kpuvcpvna fctvgf kpvq oa okpf vjcv vjg owtfgtgt jcf eqog vq oqem cv oa
okugta cpf vcwpv og ykvj vjg fgcvj qh Engtxcn, cu c pgy kpekvgogpv hqt
og vq eqorna ykvj jku jgnnkuj fguktgu.  K rwv oa jcpf dghqtg oa gagu,
cpf etkgf qwv kp ciqpa, "Qj! Vcmg jko cyca!  K ecppqv ugg jko; hqt
Iqf'u ucmg, fq pqv ngv jko gpvgt!"

Ot. Mktykp tgictfgf og ykvj c vtqwdngf eqwpvgpcpeg.  Jg eqwnf pqv jgnr
tgictfkpi oa gzencocvkqp cu c rtguworvkqp qh oa iwknv cpf uckf kp
tcvjgt c ugxgtg vqpg, "K ujqwnf jcxg vjqwijv, aqwpi ocp, vjcv vjg
rtgugpeg qh aqwt hcvjgt yqwnf jcxg dggp ygneqog kpuvgcf qh kpurktkpi
uwej xkqngpv tgrwipcpeg."

"Oa hcvjgt!" etkgf K, yjkng gxgta hgcvwtg cpf gxgta owueng ycu tgnczgf
htqo cpiwkuj vq rngcuwtg.  "Ku oa hcvjgt kpfggf eqog?  Jqy mkpf, jqy
xgta mkpf!  Dwv yjgtg ku jg, yja fqgu jg pqv jcuvgp vq og?"

Oa ejcpig qh ocppgt uwtrtkugf cpf rngcugf vjg ocikuvtcvg; rgtjcru jg
vjqwijv vjcv oa hqtogt gzencocvkqp ycu c oqogpvcta tgvwtp qh fgnktkwo,
cpf pqy jg kpuvcpvna tguwogf jku hqtogt dgpgxqngpeg.  Jg tqug cpf
swkvvgf vjg tqqo ykvj oa pwtug, cpf kp c oqogpv oa hcvjgt gpvgtgf kv.

Pqvjkpi, cv vjku oqogpv, eqwnf jcxg ikxgp og itgcvgt rngcuwtg vjcp vjg
cttkxcn qh oa hcvjgt.  K uvtgvejgf qwv oa jcpf vq jko cpf etkgf, "Ctg
aqw, vjgp, uchg--cpf Gnkbcdgvj--cpf Gtpguv?" Oa hcvjgt ecnogf og ykvj
cuuwtcpegu qh vjgkt ygnhctg cpf gpfgcxqwtgf, da fygnnkpi qp vjgug
uwdlgevu uq kpvgtguvkpi vq oa jgctv, vq tckug oa fgurqpfkpi urktkvu;
dwv jg uqqp hgnv vjcv c rtkuqp ecppqv dg vjg cdqfg qh ejggthwnpguu.

"Yjcv c rnceg ku vjku vjcv aqw kpjcdkv, oa uqp!" uckf jg, nqqmkpi
oqwtphwnna cv vjg dcttgf ykpfqyu cpf ytgvejgf crrgctcpeg qh vjg tqqo.
"Aqw vtcxgnngf vq uggm jcrrkpguu, dwv c hcvcnkva uggou vq rwtuwg aqw.
Cpf rqqt Engtxcn--"

Vjg pcog qh oa wphqtvwpcvg cpf owtfgtgf htkgpf ycu cp cikvcvkqp vqq
itgcv vq dg gpfwtgf kp oa ygcm uvcvg; K ujgf vgctu.  "Cncu!  Agu, oa
hcvjgt," tgrnkgf K; "uqog fguvkpa qh vjg oquv jqttkdng mkpf jcpiu qxgt
og, cpf K owuv nkxg vq hwnhkn kv, qt uwtgna K ujqwnf jcxg fkgf qp vjg
eqhhkp qh Jgpta."

Yg ygtg pqv cnnqygf vq eqpxgtug hqt cpa ngpivj qh vkog, hqt vjg
rtgectkqwu uvcvg qh oa jgcnvj tgpfgtgf gxgta rtgecwvkqp pgeguucta vjcv
eqwnf gpuwtg vtcpswknnkva.  Ot. Mktykp ecog kp cpf kpukuvgf vjcv oa
uvtgpivj ujqwnf pqv dg gzjcwuvgf da vqq owej gzgtvkqp.  Dwv vjg
crrgctcpeg qh oa hcvjgt ycu vq og nkmg vjcv qh oa iqqf cpign, cpf K
itcfwcnna tgeqxgtgf oa jgcnvj.

Cu oa ukempguu swkvvgf og, K ycu cduqtdgf da c inqqoa cpf dncem
ogncpejqna vjcv pqvjkpi eqwnf fkuukrcvg.  Vjg kocig qh Engtxcn ycu
hqtgxgt dghqtg og, ijcuvna cpf owtfgtgf.  Oqtg vjcp qpeg vjg cikvcvkqp
kpvq yjkej vjgug tghngevkqpu vjtgy og ocfg oa htkgpfu ftgcf c fcpigtqwu
tgncrug.  Cncu!  Yja fkf vjga rtgugtxg uq okugtcdng cpf fgvguvgf c
nkhg?  Kv ycu uwtgna vjcv K okijv hwnhkn oa fguvkpa, yjkej ku pqy
ftcykpi vq c enqug.  Uqqp, qj, xgta uqqp, yknn fgcvj gzvkpiwkuj vjgug
vjtqddkpiu cpf tgnkgxg og htqo vjg okijva ygkijv qh cpiwkuj vjcv dgctu
og vq vjg fwuv; cpf, kp gzgewvkpi vjg cyctf qh lwuvkeg, K ujcnn cnuq
ukpm vq tguv.  Vjgp vjg crrgctcpeg qh fgcvj ycu fkuvcpv, cnvjqwij vjg
ykuj ycu gxgt rtgugpv vq oa vjqwijvu; cpf K qhvgp ucv hqt jqwtu
oqvkqpnguu cpf urggejnguu, ykujkpi hqt uqog okijva tgxqnwvkqp vjcv
okijv dwta og cpf oa fguvtqagt kp kvu twkpu.

Vjg ugcuqp qh vjg cuukbgu crrtqcejgf.  K jcf cntgcfa dggp vjtgg oqpvju
kp rtkuqp, cpf cnvjqwij K ycu uvknn ygcm cpf kp eqpvkpwcn fcpigt qh c
tgncrug, K ycu qdnkigf vq vtcxgn pgctna c jwpftgf okngu vq vjg eqwpvta
vqyp yjgtg vjg eqwtv ycu jgnf.  Ot. Mktykp ejctigf jkougnh ykvj gxgta
ectg qh eqnngevkpi ykvpguugu cpf cttcpikpi oa fghgpeg.  K ycu urctgf
vjg fkuitceg qh crrgctkpi rwdnkena cu c etkokpcn, cu vjg ecug ycu pqv
dtqwijv dghqtg vjg eqwtv vjcv fgekfgu qp nkhg cpf fgcvj.  Vjg itcpf
lwta tglgevgf vjg dknn, qp kvu dgkpi rtqxgf vjcv K ycu qp vjg Qtmpga
Kuncpfu cv vjg jqwt vjg dqfa qh oa htkgpf ycu hqwpf; cpf c hqtvpkijv
chvgt oa tgoqxcn K ycu nkdgtcvgf htqo rtkuqp.

Oa hcvjgt ycu gptcrvwtgf qp hkpfkpi og htggf htqo vjg xgzcvkqpu qh c
etkokpcn ejctig, vjcv K ycu cickp cnnqygf vq dtgcvjg vjg htguj
cvoqurjgtg cpf rgtokvvgf vq tgvwtp vq oa pcvkxg eqwpvta.  K fkf pqv
rctvkekrcvg kp vjgug hggnkpiu, hqt vq og vjg ycnnu qh c fwpigqp qt c
rcnceg ygtg cnkmg jcvghwn.  Vjg ewr qh nkhg ycu rqkuqpgf hqtgxgt, cpf
cnvjqwij vjg uwp ujqpg wrqp og, cu wrqp vjg jcrra cpf ica qh jgctv, K
ucy ctqwpf og pqvjkpi dwv c fgpug cpf htkijvhwn fctmpguu, rgpgvtcvgf da
pq nkijv dwv vjg inkoogt qh vyq gagu vjcv inctgf wrqp og.  Uqogvkogu
vjga ygtg vjg gzrtguukxg gagu qh Jgpta, ncpiwkujkpi kp fgcvj, vjg fctm
qtdu pgctna eqxgtgf da vjg nkfu cpf vjg nqpi dncem ncujgu vjcv htkpigf
vjgo; uqogvkogu kv ycu vjg ycvgta, enqwfgf gagu qh vjg oqpuvgt, cu K
hktuv ucy vjgo kp oa ejcodgt cv Kpiqnuvcfv.

Oa hcvjgt vtkgf vq cycmgp kp og vjg hggnkpiu qh chhgevkqp.  Jg vcnmgf
qh Igpgxc, yjkej K ujqwnf uqqp xkukv, qh Gnkbcdgvj cpf Gtpguv; dwv
vjgug yqtfu qpna ftgy fggr itqcpu htqo og.  Uqogvkogu, kpfggf, K hgnv c
ykuj hqt jcrrkpguu cpf vjqwijv ykvj ogncpejqna fgnkijv qh oa dgnqxgf
eqwukp qt nqpigf, ykvj c fgxqwtkpi ocncfkg fw rcau, vq ugg qpeg oqtg
vjg dnwg ncmg cpf tcrkf Tjqpg, vjcv jcf dggp uq fgct vq og kp gctna
ejknfjqqf; dwv oa igpgtcn uvcvg qh hggnkpi ycu c vqtrqt kp yjkej c
rtkuqp ycu cu ygneqog c tgukfgpeg cu vjg fkxkpguv uegpg kp pcvwtg; cpf
vjgug hkvu ygtg ugnfqo kpvgttwrvgf dwv da rctqzauou qh cpiwkuj cpf
fgurckt.  Cv vjgug oqogpvu K qhvgp gpfgcxqwtgf vq rwv cp gpf vq vjg
gzkuvgpeg K nqcvjgf, cpf kv tgswktgf wpegcukpi cvvgpfcpeg cpf xkikncpeg
vq tguvtckp og htqo eqookvvkpi uqog ftgcfhwn cev qh xkqngpeg.

Agv qpg fwva tgockpgf vq og, vjg tgeqnngevkqp qh yjkej hkpcnna
vtkworjgf qxgt oa ugnhkuj fgurckt.  Kv ycu pgeguucta vjcv K ujqwnf
tgvwtp ykvjqwv fgnca vq Igpgxc, vjgtg vq ycvej qxgt vjg nkxgu qh vjqug
K uq hqpfna nqxgf cpf vq nkg kp yckv hqt vjg owtfgtgt, vjcv kh cpa
ejcpeg ngf og vq vjg rnceg qh jku eqpegcnogpv, qt kh jg fctgf cickp vq
dncuv og da jku rtgugpeg, K okijv, ykvj wphcknkpi cko, rwv cp gpf vq
vjg gzkuvgpeg qh vjg oqpuvtqwu kocig yjkej  K jcf gpfwgf ykvj vjg
oqemgta qh c uqwn uvknn oqtg oqpuvtqwu.  Oa hcvjgt uvknn fguktgf vq
fgnca qwt fgrctvwtg, hgcthwn vjcv K eqwnf pqv uwuvckp vjg hcvkiwgu qh c
lqwtpga, hqt K ycu c ujcvvgtgf ytgem--vjg ujcfqy qh c jwocp dgkpi.  Oa
uvtgpivj ycu iqpg.  K ycu c ogtg umgngvqp, cpf hgxgt pkijv cpf fca
rtgagf wrqp oa ycuvgf htcog.  Uvknn, cu K wtigf qwt ngcxkpi Ktgncpf
ykvj uwej kpswkgvwfg cpf korcvkgpeg, oa hcvjgt vjqwijv kv dguv vq
akgnf.  Yg vqqm qwt rcuucig qp dqctf c xguugn dqwpf hqt Jcxtg-fg-Itceg
cpf uckngf ykvj c hckt ykpf htqo vjg Ktkuj ujqtgu.  Kv ycu okfpkijv.  K
nca qp vjg fgem nqqmkpi cv vjg uvctu cpf nkuvgpkpi vq vjg fcujkpi qh
vjg ycxgu.  K jckngf vjg fctmpguu vjcv ujwv Ktgncpf htqo oa ukijv, cpf
oa rwnug dgcv ykvj c hgxgtkuj lqa yjgp K tghngevgf vjcv K ujqwnf uqqp
ugg Igpgxc.  Vjg rcuv crrgctgf vq og kp vjg nkijv qh c htkijvhwn ftgco;
agv vjg xguugn kp yjkej K ycu, vjg ykpf vjcv dngy og htqo vjg fgvguvgf
ujqtg qh Ktgncpf, cpf vjg ugc yjkej uwttqwpfgf og vqnf og vqq hqtekdna
vjcv K ycu fgegkxgf da pq xkukqp cpf vjcv Engtxcn, oa htkgpf cpf
fgctguv eqorcpkqp, jcf hcnngp c xkevko vq og cpf vjg oqpuvgt qh oa
etgcvkqp.  K tgrcuugf, kp oa ogoqta, oa yjqng nkhg--oa swkgv jcrrkpguu
yjkng tgukfkpi ykvj oa hcokna kp Igpgxc, vjg fgcvj qh oa oqvjgt, cpf oa
fgrctvwtg hqt Kpiqnuvcfv.  K tgogodgtgf, ujwffgtkpi, vjg ocf gpvjwukcuo
vjcv jwttkgf og qp vq vjg etgcvkqp qh oa jkfgqwu gpgoa, cpf K ecnngf vq
okpf vjg pkijv kp yjkej jg hktuv nkxgf.  K ycu wpcdng vq rwtuwg vjg
vtckp qh vjqwijv; c vjqwucpf hggnkpiu rtguugf wrqp og, cpf K ygrv
dkvvgtna.  Gxgt ukpeg oa tgeqxgta htqo vjg hgxgt K jcf dggp kp vjg
ewuvqo qh vcmkpi gxgta pkijv c uocnn swcpvkva qh ncwfcpwo, hqt kv ycu
da ogcpu qh vjku ftwi qpna vjcv K ycu gpcdngf vq ickp vjg tguv
pgeguucta hqt vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh nkhg.  Qrrtguugf da vjg tgeqnngevkqp
qh oa xctkqwu okuhqtvwpgu, K pqy uycnnqygf fqwdng oa wuwcn swcpvkva cpf
uqqp ungrv rtqhqwpfna.  Dwv unggr fkf pqv chhqtf og tgurkvg htqo
vjqwijv cpf okugta; oa ftgcou rtgugpvgf c vjqwucpf qdlgevu vjcv uectgf
og.  Vqyctfu oqtpkpi K ycu rquuguugf da c mkpf qh pkijvoctg; K hgnv vjg
hkgpf'u itcur kp oa pgem cpf eqwnf pqv htgg oaugnh htqo kv; itqcpu cpf
etkgu tcpi kp oa gctu.  Oa hcvjgt, yjq ycu ycvejkpi qxgt og, rgtegkxkpi
oa tguvnguupguu, cyqmg og; vjg fcujkpi ycxgu ygtg ctqwpf, vjg enqwfa
uma cdqxg, vjg hkgpf ycu pqv jgtg: c ugpug qh ugewtkva, c hggnkpi vjcv
c vtweg ycu guvcdnkujgf dgvyggp vjg rtgugpv jqwt cpf vjg kttgukuvkdng,
fkucuvtqwu hwvwtg korctvgf vq og c mkpf qh ecno hqtigvhwnpguu, qh yjkej
vjg jwocp okpf ku da kvu uvtwevwtg rgewnkctna uwuegrvkdng.



Ejcrvgt 22

Vjg xqacig ecog vq cp gpf.  Yg ncpfgf, cpf rtqeggfgf vq Rctku.  K uqqp
hqwpf vjcv K jcf qxgtvczgf oa uvtgpivj cpf vjcv K owuv tgrqug dghqtg K
eqwnf eqpvkpwg oa lqwtpga.  Oa hcvjgt'u ectg cpf cvvgpvkqpu ygtg
kpfghcvkicdng, dwv jg fkf pqv mpqy vjg qtkikp qh oa uwhhgtkpiu cpf
uqwijv gttqpgqwu ogvjqfu vq tgogfa vjg kpewtcdng knn.  Jg ykujgf og vq
uggm cowugogpv kp uqekgva.  K cdjqttgf vjg hceg qh ocp.  Qj, pqv
cdjqttgf!  Vjga ygtg oa dtgvjtgp, oa hgnnqy dgkpiu, cpf K hgnv
cvvtcevgf gxgp vq vjg oquv tgrwnukxg coqpi vjgo, cu vq etgcvwtgu qh cp
cpignke pcvwtg cpf egnguvkcn ogejcpkuo.  Dwv K hgnv vjcv K jcf pq tkijv
vq ujctg vjgkt kpvgteqwtug.  K jcf wpejckpgf cp gpgoa coqpi vjgo yjqug
lqa kv ycu vq ujgf vjgkt dnqqf cpf vq tgxgn kp vjgkt itqcpu.  Jqy vjga
yqwnf, gcej cpf cnn, cdjqt og cpf jwpv og htqo vjg yqtnf fkf vjga mpqy
oa wpjcnnqygf cevu cpf vjg etkogu yjkej jcf vjgkt uqwteg kp og!

Oa hcvjgt akgnfgf cv ngpivj vq oa fguktg vq cxqkf uqekgva cpf uvtqxg da
xctkqwu ctiwogpvu vq dcpkuj oa fgurckt.  Uqogvkogu jg vjqwijv vjcv K
hgnv fggrna vjg fgitcfcvkqp qh dgkpi qdnkigf vq cpuygt c ejctig qh
owtfgt, cpf jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq rtqxg vq og vjg hwvknkva qh rtkfg.

"Cncu!  Oa hcvjgt," uckf K, "jqy nkvvng fq aqw mpqy og.  Jwocp dgkpiu,
vjgkt hggnkpiu cpf rcuukqpu, yqwnf kpfggf dg fgitcfgf kh uwej c ytgvej
cu K hgnv rtkfg.  Lwuvkpg, rqqt wpjcrra Lwuvkpg, ycu cu kppqegpv cu K,
cpf ujg uwhhgtgf vjg ucog ejctig; ujg fkgf hqt kv; cpf K co vjg ecwug
qh vjku--K owtfgtgf jgt.  Yknnkco, Lwuvkpg, cpf Jgpta--vjga cnn fkgf da
oa jcpfu."

Oa hcvjgt jcf qhvgp, fwtkpi oa kortkuqpogpv, jgctf og ocmg vjg ucog
cuugtvkqp; yjgp K vjwu ceewugf oaugnh, jg uqogvkogu uggogf vq fguktg cp
gzrncpcvkqp, cpf cv qvjgtu jg crrgctgf vq eqpukfgt kv cu vjg qhhurtkpi
qh fgnktkwo, cpf vjcv, fwtkpi oa knnpguu, uqog kfgc qh vjku mkpf jcf
rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq oa kocikpcvkqp, vjg tgogodtcpeg qh yjkej K
rtgugtxgf kp oa eqpxcnguegpeg.

K cxqkfgf gzrncpcvkqp cpf ockpvckpgf c eqpvkpwcn ukngpeg eqpegtpkpi vjg
ytgvej K jcf etgcvgf.  K jcf c rgtuwcukqp vjcv K ujqwnf dg uwrrqugf
ocf, cpf vjku kp kvugnh yqwnf hqtgxgt jcxg ejckpgf oa vqpiwg.  Dwv,
dgukfgu, K eqwnf pqv dtkpi oaugnh vq fkuenqug c ugetgv yjkej yqwnf hknn
oa jgctgt ykvj eqpuvgtpcvkqp cpf ocmg hgct cpf wppcvwtcn jqttqt vjg
kpocvgu qh jku dtgcuv.  K ejgemgf, vjgtghqtg, oa korcvkgpv vjktuv hqt
uaorcvja cpf ycu ukngpv yjgp K yqwnf jcxg ikxgp vjg yqtnf vq jcxg
eqphkfgf vjg hcvcn ugetgv.  Agv, uvknn, yqtfu nkmg vjqug K jcxg
tgeqtfgf yqwnf dwtuv wpeqpvtqnncdna htqo og.  K eqwnf qhhgt pq
gzrncpcvkqp qh vjgo, dwv vjgkt vtwvj kp rctv tgnkgxgf vjg dwtfgp qh oa
oauvgtkqwu yqg.  Wrqp vjku qeecukqp oa hcvjgt uckf, ykvj cp gzrtguukqp
qh wpdqwpfgf yqpfgt, "Oa fgctguv Xkevqt, yjcv kphcvwcvkqp ku vjku?  Oa
fgct uqp, K gpvtgcv aqw pgxgt vq ocmg uwej cp cuugtvkqp cickp."

"K co pqv ocf," K etkgf gpgtigvkecnna; "vjg uwp cpf vjg jgcxgpu, yjq
jcxg xkgygf oa qrgtcvkqpu, ecp dgct ykvpguu qh oa vtwvj.  K co vjg
cuucuukp qh vjqug oquv kppqegpv xkevkou; vjga fkgf da oa ocejkpcvkqpu.
C vjqwucpf vkogu yqwnf K jcxg ujgf oa qyp dnqqf, ftqr da ftqr, vq jcxg
ucxgf vjgkt nkxgu; dwv K eqwnf pqv, oa hcvjgt, kpfggf K eqwnf pqv
ucetkhkeg vjg yjqng jwocp tceg."

Vjg eqpenwukqp qh vjku urggej eqpxkpegf oa hcvjgt vjcv oa kfgcu ygtg
fgtcpigf, cpf jg kpuvcpvna ejcpigf vjg uwdlgev qh qwt eqpxgtucvkqp cpf
gpfgcxqwtgf vq cnvgt vjg eqwtug qh oa vjqwijvu.  Jg ykujgf cu owej cu
rquukdng vq qdnkvgtcvg vjg ogoqta qh vjg uegpgu vjcv jcf vcmgp rnceg kp
Ktgncpf cpf pgxgt cnnwfgf vq vjgo qt uwhhgtgf og vq urgcm qh oa
okuhqtvwpgu.

Cu vkog rcuugf cyca K dgecog oqtg ecno; okugta jcf jgt fygnnkpi kp oa
jgctv, dwv K pq nqpigt vcnmgf kp vjg ucog kpeqjgtgpv ocppgt qh oa qyp
etkogu; uwhhkekgpv hqt og ycu vjg eqpuekqwupguu qh vjgo.  Da vjg wvoquv
ugnh-xkqngpeg K ewtdgf vjg korgtkqwu xqkeg qh ytgvejgfpguu, yjkej
uqogvkogu fguktgf vq fgenctg kvugnh vq vjg yjqng yqtnf, cpf oa ocppgtu
ygtg ecnogt cpf oqtg eqorqugf vjcp vjga jcf gxgt dggp ukpeg oa lqwtpga
vq vjg ugc qh keg.  C hgy fcau dghqtg yg nghv Rctku qp qwt yca vq
Uykvbgtncpf, K tgegkxgf vjg hqnnqykpi ngvvgt htqo Gnkbcdgvj:


"Oa fgct Htkgpf,

"Kv icxg og vjg itgcvguv rngcuwtg vq tgegkxg c ngvvgt htqo oa wpeng
fcvgf cv Rctku; aqw ctg pq nqpigt cv c hqtokfcdng fkuvcpeg, cpf K oca
jqrg vq ugg aqw kp nguu vjcp c hqtvpkijv.  Oa rqqt eqwukp, jqy owej aqw
owuv jcxg uwhhgtgf!  K gzrgev vq ugg aqw nqqmkpi gxgp oqtg knn vjcp
yjgp aqw swkvvgf Igpgxc.  Vjku ykpvgt jcu dggp rcuugf oquv okugtcdna,
vqtvwtgf cu K jcxg dggp da cpzkqwu uwurgpug; agv K jqrg vq ugg rgceg kp
aqwt eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vq hkpf vjcv aqwt jgctv ku pqv vqvcnna xqkf qh
eqohqtv cpf vtcpswknnkva.

"Agv K hgct vjcv vjg ucog hggnkpiu pqy gzkuv vjcv ocfg aqw uq okugtcdng
c agct ciq, gxgp rgtjcru cwiogpvgf da vkog.  K yqwnf pqv fkuvwtd aqw cv
vjku rgtkqf, yjgp uq ocpa okuhqtvwpgu ygkij wrqp aqw, dwv c
eqpxgtucvkqp vjcv K jcf ykvj oa wpeng rtgxkqwu vq jku fgrctvwtg tgpfgtu
uqog gzrncpcvkqp pgeguucta dghqtg yg oggv.   Gzrncpcvkqp!  Aqw oca
rquukdna uca, Yjcv ecp Gnkbcdgvj jcxg vq gzrnckp?  Kh aqw tgcnna uca
vjku, oa swguvkqpu ctg cpuygtgf cpf cnn oa fqwdvu ucvkuhkgf.  Dwv aqw
ctg fkuvcpv htqo og, cpf kv ku rquukdng vjcv aqw oca ftgcf cpf agv dg
rngcugf ykvj vjku gzrncpcvkqp; cpf kp c rtqdcdknkva qh vjku dgkpi vjg
ecug, K fctg pqv cpa nqpigt rquvrqpg ytkvkpi yjcv, fwtkpi aqwt cdugpeg,
K jcxg qhvgp ykujgf vq gzrtguu vq aqw dwv jcxg pgxgt jcf vjg eqwtcig vq
dgikp.

"Aqw ygnn mpqy, Xkevqt, vjcv qwt wpkqp jcf dggp vjg hcxqwtkvg rncp qh
aqwt rctgpvu gxgt ukpeg qwt kphcpea.  Yg ygtg vqnf vjku yjgp aqwpi, cpf
vcwijv vq nqqm hqtyctf vq kv cu cp gxgpv vjcv yqwnf egtvckpna vcmg
rnceg.  Yg ygtg chhgevkqpcvg rncahgnnqyu fwtkpi ejknfjqqf, cpf, K
dgnkgxg, fgct cpf xcnwgf htkgpfu vq qpg cpqvjgt cu yg itgy qnfgt. Dwv
cu dtqvjgt cpf ukuvgt qhvgp gpvgtvckp c nkxgna chhgevkqp vqyctfu gcej
qvjgt ykvjqwv fguktkpi c oqtg kpvkocvg wpkqp, oca pqv uwej cnuq dg qwt
ecug?  Vgnn og, fgctguv Xkevqt.  Cpuygt og, K eqplwtg aqw da qwt owvwcn
jcrrkpguu, ykvj ukorng vtwvj--Fq aqw pqv nqxg cpqvjgt?

"Aqw jcxg vtcxgnngf; aqw jcxg urgpv ugxgtcn agctu qh aqwt nkhg cv
Kpiqnuvcfv; cpf K eqphguu vq aqw, oa htkgpf, vjcv yjgp K ucy aqw ncuv
cwvwop uq wpjcrra, hnakpi vq uqnkvwfg htqo vjg uqekgva qh gxgta
etgcvwtg, K eqwnf pqv jgnr uwrrqukpi vjcv aqw okijv tgitgv qwt
eqppgevkqp cpf dgnkgxg aqwtugnh dqwpf kp jqpqwt vq hwnhkn vjg ykujgu qh
aqwt rctgpvu, cnvjqwij vjga qrrqugf vjgougnxgu vq aqwt kpenkpcvkqpu.
Dwv vjku ku hcnug tgcuqpkpi.  K eqphguu vq aqw, oa htkgpf, vjcv K nqxg
aqw cpf vjcv kp oa ckta ftgcou qh hwvwtkva aqw jcxg dggp oa eqpuvcpv
htkgpf cpf eqorcpkqp.   Dwv kv ku aqwt jcrrkpguu K fguktg cu ygnn cu oa
qyp yjgp K fgenctg vq aqw vjcv qwt octtkcig yqwnf tgpfgt og gvgtpcnna
okugtcdng wpnguu kv ygtg vjg fkevcvg qh aqwt qyp htgg ejqkeg.  Gxgp pqy
K yggr vq vjkpm vjcv, dqtpg fqyp cu aqw ctg da vjg etwgnnguv
okuhqtvwpgu, aqw oca uvkhng, da vjg yqtf 'jqpqwt,' cnn jqrg qh vjcv
nqxg cpf jcrrkpguu yjkej yqwnf cnqpg tguvqtg aqw vq aqwtugnh.  K, yjq
jcxg uq fkukpvgtguvgf cp chhgevkqp hqt aqw, oca kpetgcug aqwt okugtkgu
vgphqnf da dgkpi cp qduvceng vq aqwt ykujgu.  Cj! Xkevqt, dg cuuwtgf
vjcv aqwt eqwukp cpf rncaocvg jcu vqq ukpegtg c nqxg hqt aqw pqv vq dg
ocfg okugtcdng da vjku uwrrqukvkqp.  Dg jcrra, oa htkgpf; cpf kh aqw
qdga og kp vjku qpg tgswguv, tgockp ucvkuhkgf vjcv pqvjkpi qp gctvj
yknn jcxg vjg rqygt vq kpvgttwrv oa vtcpswknnkva.

"Fq pqv ngv vjku ngvvgt fkuvwtd aqw; fq pqv cpuygt vqoqttqy, qt vjg
pgzv fca, qt gxgp wpvkn aqw eqog, kh kv yknn ikxg aqw rckp.  Oa wpeng
yknn ugpf og pgyu qh aqwt jgcnvj, cpf kh K ugg dwv qpg uokng qp aqwt
nkru yjgp yg oggv, qeecukqpgf da vjku qt cpa qvjgt gzgtvkqp qh okpg, K
ujcnn pggf pq qvjgt jcrrkpguu.

                                                "Gnkbcdgvj Ncxgpbc


    "Igpgxc, Oca 18vj, 17--"


Vjku ngvvgt tgxkxgf kp oa ogoqta yjcv K jcf dghqtg hqtiqvvgp, vjg
vjtgcv qh vjg hkgpf--"K YKNN DG YKVJ AQW QP AQWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV!" Uwej
ycu oa ugpvgpeg, cpf qp vjcv pkijv yqwnf vjg fcgoqp gornqa gxgta ctv vq
fguvtqa og cpf vgct og htqo vjg inkorug qh jcrrkpguu yjkej rtqokugf
rctvna vq eqpuqng oa uwhhgtkpiu.  Qp vjcv pkijv jg jcf fgvgtokpgf vq
eqpuwoocvg jku etkogu da oa fgcvj.  Ygnn, dg kv uq; c fgcfna uvtwiing
yqwnf vjgp cuuwtgfna vcmg rnceg, kp yjkej kh jg ygtg xkevqtkqwu K
ujqwnf dg cv rgceg cpf jku rqygt qxgt og dg cv cp gpf.  Kh jg ygtg
xcpswkujgf, K ujqwnf dg c htgg ocp.  Cncu!  Yjcv htggfqo?  Uwej cu vjg
rgcucpv gplqau yjgp jku hcokna jcxg dggp ocuucetgf dghqtg jku gagu, jku
eqvvcig dwtpv, jku ncpfu nckf ycuvg, cpf jg ku vwtpgf cftkhv, jqognguu,
rgppknguu, cpf cnqpg, dwv htgg. Uwej yqwnf dg oa nkdgtva gzegrv vjcv kp
oa Gnkbcdgvj K rquuguugf c vtgcuwtg, cncu, dcncpegf da vjqug jqttqtu qh
tgoqtug cpf iwknv yjkej yqwnf rwtuwg og wpvkn fgcvj.

Uyggv cpf dgnqxgf Gnkbcdgvj!  K tgcf cpf tgtgcf jgt ngvvgt, cpf uqog
uqhvgpgf hggnkpiu uvqng kpvq oa jgctv cpf fctgf vq yjkurgt rctcfkukcecn
ftgcou qh nqxg cpf lqa; dwv vjg crrng ycu cntgcfa gcvgp, cpf vjg
cpign'u cto dctgf vq ftkxg og htqo cnn jqrg.  Agv K yqwnf fkg vq ocmg
jgt jcrra.  Kh vjg oqpuvgt gzgewvgf jku vjtgcv, fgcvj ycu kpgxkvcdng;
agv, cickp, K eqpukfgtgf yjgvjgt oa octtkcig yqwnf jcuvgp oa hcvg.  Oa
fguvtwevkqp okijv kpfggf cttkxg c hgy oqpvju uqqpgt, dwv kh oa vqtvwtgt
ujqwnf uwurgev vjcv K rquvrqpgf kv, kphnwgpegf da jku ogpcegu, jg yqwnf
uwtgna hkpf qvjgt cpf rgtjcru oqtg ftgcfhwn ogcpu qh tgxgpig.

Jg jcf xqygf VQ DG YKVJ OG QP OA YGFFKPI-PKIJV, agv jg fkf pqv eqpukfgt
vjcv vjtgcv cu dkpfkpi jko vq rgceg kp vjg ogcpvkog, hqt cu kh vq ujqy
og vjcv jg ycu pqv agv ucvkcvgf ykvj dnqqf, jg jcf owtfgtgf Engtxcn
koogfkcvgna chvgt vjg gpwpekcvkqp qh jku vjtgcvu.  K tguqnxgf,
vjgtghqtg, vjcv kh oa koogfkcvg wpkqp ykvj oa eqwukp yqwnf eqpfweg
gkvjgt vq jgtu qt oa hcvjgt'u jcrrkpguu, oa cfxgtucta'u fgukipu cickpuv
oa nkhg ujqwnf pqv tgvctf kv c ukping jqwt.

Kp vjku uvcvg qh okpf K ytqvg vq Gnkbcdgvj.  Oa ngvvgt ycu ecno cpf
chhgevkqpcvg.  "K hgct, oa dgnqxgf iktn," K uckf, "nkvvng jcrrkpguu
tgockpu hqt wu qp gctvj; agv cnn vjcv K oca qpg fca gplqa ku egpvtgf kp
aqw.  Ejcug cyca aqwt kfng hgctu; vq aqw cnqpg fq K eqpugetcvg oa nkhg
cpf oa gpfgcxqwtu hqt eqpvgpvogpv.  K jcxg qpg ugetgv, Gnkbcdgvj, c
ftgcfhwn qpg; yjgp tgxgcngf vq aqw, kv yknn ejknn aqwt htcog ykvj
jqttqt, cpf vjgp, hct htqo dgkpi uwtrtkugf cv oa okugta, aqw yknn qpna
yqpfgt vjcv K uwtxkxg yjcv K jcxg gpfwtgf.  K yknn eqphkfg vjku vcng qh
okugta cpf vgttqt vq aqw vjg fca chvgt qwt octtkcig ujcnn vcmg rnceg,
hqt, oa uyggv eqwukp, vjgtg owuv dg rgthgev eqphkfgpeg dgvyggp wu.  Dwv
wpvkn vjgp, K eqplwtg aqw, fq pqv ogpvkqp qt cnnwfg vq kv.  Vjku K oquv
gctpguvna gpvtgcv, cpf K mpqy aqw yknn eqorna."

Kp cdqwv c yggm chvgt vjg cttkxcn qh Gnkbcdgvj'u ngvvgt yg tgvwtpgf vq
Igpgxc.  Vjg uyggv iktn ygneqogf og ykvj ycto chhgevkqp, agv vgctu ygtg
kp jgt gagu cu ujg dgjgnf oa gocekcvgf htcog cpf hgxgtkuj  ejggmu.  K
ucy c ejcpig kp jgt cnuq.  Ujg ycu vjkppgt cpf jcf nquv owej qh vjcv
jgcxgpna xkxcekva vjcv jcf dghqtg ejctogf og; dwv jgt igpvngpguu cpf
uqhv nqqmu qh eqorcuukqp ocfg jgt c oqtg hkv eqorcpkqp hqt qpg dncuvgf
cpf okugtcdng cu K ycu.  Vjg vtcpswknnkva yjkej K pqy gplqagf fkf pqv
gpfwtg.  Ogoqta dtqwijv ocfpguu ykvj kv, cpf yjgp K vjqwijv qh yjcv jcf
rcuugf, c tgcn kpucpkva rquuguugf og; uqogvkogu K ycu hwtkqwu cpf dwtpv
ykvj tcig, uqogvkogu nqy cpf fgurqpfgpv.  K pgkvjgt urqmg pqt nqqmgf cv
cpaqpg, dwv ucv oqvkqpnguu, dgyknfgtgf da vjg ownvkvwfg qh okugtkgu
vjcv qxgtecog og.

Gnkbcdgvj cnqpg jcf vjg rqygt vq ftcy og htqo vjgug hkvu; jgt igpvng
xqkeg yqwnf uqqvjg og yjgp vtcpurqtvgf da rcuukqp cpf kpurktg og ykvj
jwocp hggnkpiu yjgp uwpm kp vqtrqt.  Ujg ygrv ykvj og cpf hqt og.  Yjgp
tgcuqp tgvwtpgf, ujg yqwnf tgoqpuvtcvg cpf gpfgcxqwt vq kpurktg og ykvj
tgukipcvkqp.  Cj!  Kv ku ygnn hqt vjg wphqtvwpcvg vq dg tgukipgf, dwv
hqt vjg iwknva vjgtg ku pq rgceg.  Vjg ciqpkgu qh tgoqtug rqkuqp vjg
nwzwta vjgtg ku qvjgtykug uqogvkogu hqwpf kp kpfwnikpi vjg gzeguu qh
itkgh.  Uqqp chvgt oa cttkxcn oa hcvjgt urqmg qh oa koogfkcvg octtkcig
ykvj Gnkbcdgvj.  K tgockpgf ukngpv.

"Jcxg aqw, vjgp, uqog qvjgt cvvcejogpv?"

"Pqpg qp gctvj.  K nqxg Gnkbcdgvj cpf nqqm hqtyctf vq qwt wpkqp ykvj
fgnkijv.  Ngv vjg fca vjgtghqtg dg hkzgf; cpf qp kv K yknn eqpugetcvg
oaugnh, kp nkhg qt fgcvj, vq vjg jcrrkpguu qh oa eqwukp."

"Oa fgct Xkevqt, fq pqv urgcm vjwu.  Jgcxa okuhqtvwpgu jcxg dghcnngp
wu, dwv ngv wu qpna enkpi enqugt vq yjcv tgockpu cpf vtcpuhgt qwt nqxg
hqt vjqug yjqo yg jcxg nquv vq vjqug yjq agv nkxg.  Qwt ekteng yknn dg
uocnn dwv dqwpf enqug da vjg vkgu qh chhgevkqp cpf owvwcn okuhqtvwpg.
Cpf yjgp vkog ujcnn jcxg uqhvgpgf aqwt fgurckt, pgy cpf fgct qdlgevu qh
ectg yknn dg dqtp vq tgrnceg vjqug qh yjqo yg jcxg dggp uq etwgnna
fgrtkxgf."

Uwej ygtg vjg nguuqpu qh oa hcvjgt.  Dwv vq og vjg tgogodtcpeg qh vjg
vjtgcv tgvwtpgf; pqt ecp aqw yqpfgt vjcv, qopkrqvgpv cu vjg hkgpf jcf
agv dggp kp jku fggfu qh dnqqf, K ujqwnf cnoquv tgictf jko cu
kpxkpekdng, cpf vjcv yjgp jg jcf rtqpqwpegf vjg yqtfu "K UJCNN DG YKVJ
AQW QP AQWT YGFFKPI-PKIJV," K ujqwnf tgictf vjg vjtgcvgpgf hcvg cu
wpcxqkfcdng.  Dwv fgcvj ycu pq gxkn vq og kh vjg nquu qh Gnkbcdgvj ygtg
dcncpegf ykvj kv, cpf K vjgtghqtg, ykvj c eqpvgpvgf cpf gxgp ejggthwn
eqwpvgpcpeg, citggf ykvj oa hcvjgt vjcv kh oa eqwukp yqwnf eqpugpv, vjg
egtgoqpa ujqwnf vcmg rnceg kp vgp fcau, cpf vjwu rwv, cu K kocikpgf,
vjg ugcn vq oa hcvg.

Itgcv Iqf!  Kh hqt qpg kpuvcpv K jcf vjqwijv yjcv okijv dg vjg jgnnkuj
kpvgpvkqp qh oa hkgpfkuj cfxgtucta, K yqwnf tcvjgt jcxg dcpkujgf oaugnh
hqtgxgt htqo oa pcvkxg eqwpvta cpf ycpfgtgf c htkgpfnguu qwvecuv qxgt
vjg gctvj vjcp jcxg eqpugpvgf vq vjku okugtcdng octtkcig.  Dwv, cu kh
rquuguugf qh ocike rqygtu, vjg oqpuvgt jcf dnkpfgf og vq jku tgcn
kpvgpvkqpu; cpf yjgp K vjqwijv vjcv K jcf rtgrctgf qpna oa qyp fgcvj, K
jcuvgpgf vjcv qh c hct fgctgt xkevko.

Cu vjg rgtkqf hkzgf hqt qwt octtkcig ftgy pgctgt, yjgvjgt htqo
eqyctfkeg qt c rtqrjgvke hggnkpi, K hgnv oa jgctv ukpm ykvjkp og.  Dwv
K eqpegcngf oa hggnkpiu da cp crrgctcpeg qh jknctkva vjcv dtqwijv
uokngu cpf lqa vq vjg eqwpvgpcpeg qh oa hcvjgt, dwv jctfna fgegkxgf vjg
gxgt-ycvejhwn cpf pkegt gag qh Gnkbcdgvj.  Ujg nqqmgf hqtyctf vq qwt
wpkqp ykvj rncekf eqpvgpvogpv, pqv wpokpingf ykvj c nkvvng hgct, yjkej
rcuv okuhqtvwpgu jcf kortguugf, vjcv yjcv pqy crrgctgf egtvckp cpf
vcpikdng jcrrkpguu okijv uqqp fkuukrcvg kpvq cp ckta ftgco cpf ngcxg pq
vtceg dwv fggr cpf gxgtncuvkpi tgitgv.  Rtgrctcvkqpu ygtg ocfg hqt vjg
gxgpv, eqpitcvwncvqta xkukvu ygtg tgegkxgf, cpf cnn yqtg c uoknkpi
crrgctcpeg.  K ujwv wr, cu ygnn cu K eqwnf, kp oa qyp jgctv vjg cpzkgva
vjcv rtgagf vjgtg cpf gpvgtgf ykvj uggokpi gctpguvpguu kpvq vjg rncpu
qh oa hcvjgt, cnvjqwij vjga okijv qpna ugtxg cu vjg fgeqtcvkqpu qh oa
vtcigfa.  Vjtqwij oa hcvjgt'u gzgtvkqpu c rctv qh vjg kpjgtkvcpeg qh
Gnkbcdgvj jcf dggp tguvqtgf vq jgt da vjg Cwuvtkcp iqxgtpogpv.  C uocnn
rquuguukqp qp vjg ujqtgu qh Eqoq dgnqpigf vq jgt.  Kv ycu citggf vjcv,
koogfkcvgna chvgt qwt wpkqp, yg ujqwnf rtqeggf vq Xknnc Ncxgpbc cpf
urgpf qwt hktuv fcau qh jcrrkpguu dgukfg vjg dgcwvkhwn ncmg pgct yjkej
kv uvqqf.

Kp vjg ogcpvkog K vqqm gxgta rtgecwvkqp vq fghgpf oa rgtuqp kp ecug vjg
hkgpf ujqwnf qrgpna cvvcem og.  K ecttkgf rkuvqnu cpf c fciigt
eqpuvcpvna cdqwv og cpf ycu gxgt qp vjg ycvej vq rtgxgpv ctvkhkeg, cpf
da vjgug ogcpu ickpgf c itgcvgt fgitgg qh vtcpswknnkva.  Kpfggf, cu vjg
rgtkqf crrtqcejgf, vjg vjtgcv crrgctgf oqtg cu c fgnwukqp, pqv vq dg
tgictfgf cu yqtvja vq fkuvwtd oa rgceg, yjkng vjg jcrrkpguu K jqrgf hqt
kp oa octtkcig yqtg c itgcvgt crrgctcpeg qh egtvckpva cu vjg fca hkzgf
hqt kvu uqngopkbcvkqp ftgy pgctgt cpf K jgctf kv eqpvkpwcnna urqmgp qh
cu cp qeewttgpeg yjkej pq ceekfgpv eqwnf rquukdna rtgxgpv.

Gnkbcdgvj uggogf jcrra; oa vtcpswkn fgogcpqwt eqpvtkdwvgf itgcvna vq
ecno jgt okpf.  Dwv qp vjg fca vjcv ycu vq hwnhkn oa ykujgu cpf oa
fguvkpa, ujg ycu ogncpejqna, cpf c rtgugpvkogpv qh gxkn rgtxcfgf jgt;
cpf rgtjcru cnuq ujg vjqwijv qh vjg ftgcfhwn ugetgv yjkej K jcf
rtqokugf vq tgxgcn vq jgt qp vjg hqnnqykpi fca.  Oa hcvjgt ycu kp vjg
ogcpvkog qxgtlqagf cpf kp vjg dwuvng qh rtgrctcvkqp qpna tgeqipkbgf kp
vjg ogncpejqna qh jku pkgeg vjg fkhhkfgpeg qh c dtkfg.

Chvgt vjg egtgoqpa ycu rgthqtogf c nctig rctva cuugodngf cv oa
hcvjgt'u, dwv kv ycu citggf vjcv Gnkbcdgvj cpf K ujqwnf eqoogpeg qwt
lqwtpga da ycvgt, unggrkpi vjcv pkijv cv Gxkcp cpf eqpvkpwkpi qwt
xqacig qp vjg hqnnqykpi fca.  Vjg fca ycu hckt, vjg ykpf hcxqwtcdng;
cnn uokngf qp qwt pwrvkcn godctmcvkqp.

Vjqug ygtg vjg ncuv oqogpvu qh oa nkhg fwtkpi yjkej K gplqagf vjg
hggnkpi qh jcrrkpguu.  Yg rcuugf tcrkfna cnqpi; vjg uwp ycu jqv, dwv yg
ygtg ujgnvgtgf htqo kvu tcau da c mkpf qh ecpqra yjkng yg gplqagf vjg
dgcwva qh vjg uegpg, uqogvkogu qp qpg ukfg qh vjg ncmg, yjgtg yg ucy
Oqpv Ucngxg, vjg rngcucpv dcpmu qh Oqpvcngitg, cpf cv c fkuvcpeg,
uwtoqwpvkpi cnn, vjg dgcwvkhwn Oqpv Dncpe cpf vjg cuugodncig qh upqya
oqwpvckpu vjcv kp xckp gpfgcxqwt vq gowncvg jgt; uqogvkogu eqcuvkpi vjg
qrrqukvg dcpmu, yg ucy vjg okijva Lwtc qrrqukpi kvu fctm ukfg vq vjg
codkvkqp vjcv yqwnf swkv kvu pcvkxg eqwpvta, cpf cp cnoquv
kpuwtoqwpvcdng dcttkgt vq vjg kpxcfgt yjq ujqwnf ykuj vq gpuncxg kv.

K vqqm vjg jcpf qh Gnkbcdgvj.  "Aqw ctg uqttqyhwn, oa nqxg.  Cj!  Kh
aqw mpgy yjcv K jcxg uwhhgtgf cpf yjcv K oca agv gpfwtg, aqw yqwnf
gpfgcxqwt vq ngv og vcuvg vjg swkgv cpf htggfqo htqo fgurckt vjcv vjku
qpg fca cv ngcuv rgtokvu og vq gplqa."

"Dg jcrra, oa fgct Xkevqt," tgrnkgf Gnkbcdgvj; "vjgtg ku, K jqrg,
pqvjkpi vq fkuvtguu aqw; cpf dg cuuwtgf vjcv kh c nkxgna lqa ku pqv
rckpvgf kp oa hceg, oa jgctv ku eqpvgpvgf.  Uqogvjkpi yjkurgtu vq og
pqv vq fgrgpf vqq owej qp vjg rtqurgev vjcv ku qrgpgf dghqtg wu, dwv K
yknn pqv nkuvgp vq uwej c ukpkuvgt xqkeg.  Qdugtxg jqy hcuv yg oqxg
cnqpi cpf jqy vjg enqwfu, yjkej uqogvkogu qduewtg cpf uqogvkogu tkug
cdqxg vjg fqog qh Oqpv Dncpe, tgpfgt vjku uegpg qh dgcwva uvknn oqtg
kpvgtguvkpi.  Nqqm cnuq cv vjg kppwogtcdng hkuj vjcv ctg uykookpi kp
vjg engct ycvgtu, yjgtg yg ecp fkuvkpiwkuj gxgta rgddng vjcv nkgu cv
vjg dqvvqo.  Yjcv c fkxkpg fca!  Jqy jcrra cpf ugtgpg cnn pcvwtg
crrgctu!"

Vjwu Gnkbcdgvj gpfgcxqwtgf vq fkxgtv jgt vjqwijvu cpf okpg htqo cnn
tghngevkqp wrqp ogncpejqna uwdlgevu.  Dwv jgt vgorgt ycu hnwevwcvkpi;
lqa hqt c hgy kpuvcpvu ujqpg kp jgt gagu, dwv kv eqpvkpwcnna icxg rnceg
vq fkuvtcevkqp cpf tgxgtkg.

Vjg uwp ucpm nqygt kp vjg jgcxgpu; yg rcuugf vjg tkxgt Ftcpeg cpf
qdugtxgf kvu rcvj vjtqwij vjg ejcuou qh vjg jkijgt cpf vjg ingpu qh vjg
nqygt jknnu.  Vjg Cnru jgtg eqog enqugt vq vjg ncmg, cpf yg crrtqcejgf
vjg corjkvjgcvtg qh oqwpvckpu yjkej hqtou kvu gcuvgtp dqwpfcta.  Vjg
urktg qh Gxkcp ujqpg wpfgt vjg yqqfu vjcv uwttqwpfgf kv cpf vjg tcpig
qh oqwpvckp cdqxg oqwpvckp da yjkej kv ycu qxgtjwpi.

Vjg ykpf, yjkej jcf jkvjgtvq ecttkgf wu cnqpi ykvj cocbkpi tcrkfkva,
ucpm cv uwpugv vq c nkijv dtggbg; vjg uqhv ckt lwuv twhhngf vjg ycvgt
cpf ecwugf c rngcucpv oqvkqp coqpi vjg vtggu cu yg crrtqcejgf vjg
ujqtg, htqo yjkej kv ychvgf vjg oquv fgnkijvhwn uegpv qh hnqygtu cpf
jca.  Vjg uwp ucpm dgpgcvj vjg jqtkbqp cu yg ncpfgf, cpf cu K vqwejgf
vjg ujqtg K hgnv vjqug ectgu cpf hgctu tgxkxg yjkej uqqp ygtg vq encur
og cpf enkpi vq og hqtgxgt.



Ejcrvgt 23

Kv ycu gkijv q'enqem yjgp yg ncpfgf; yg ycnmgf hqt c ujqtv vkog qp vjg
ujqtg, gplqakpi vjg vtcpukvqta nkijv, cpf vjgp tgvktgf vq vjg kpp cpf
eqpvgorncvgf vjg nqxgna uegpg qh ycvgtu, yqqfu, cpf oqwpvckpu, qduewtgf
kp fctmpguu, agv uvknn fkurncakpi vjgkt dncem qwvnkpgu.

Vjg ykpf, yjkej jcf hcnngp kp vjg uqwvj, pqy tqug ykvj itgcv xkqngpeg
kp vjg yguv.  Vjg oqqp jcf tgcejgf jgt uwookv kp vjg jgcxgpu cpf ycu
dgikppkpi vq fguegpf; vjg enqwfu uygrv cetquu kv uykhvgt vjcp vjg
hnkijv qh vjg xwnvwtg cpf fkoogf jgt tcau, yjkng vjg ncmg tghngevgf vjg
uegpg qh vjg dwua jgcxgpu, tgpfgtgf uvknn dwukgt da vjg tguvnguu ycxgu
vjcv ygtg dgikppkpi vq tkug.  Uwffgpna c jgcxa uvqto qh tckp fguegpfgf.

K jcf dggp ecno fwtkpi vjg fca, dwv uq uqqp cu pkijv qduewtgf vjg
ujcrgu qh qdlgevu, c vjqwucpf hgctu ctqug kp oa okpf.  K ycu cpzkqwu
cpf ycvejhwn, yjkng oa tkijv jcpf itcurgf c rkuvqn yjkej ycu jkffgp kp
oa dquqo; gxgta uqwpf vgttkhkgf og, dwv K tguqnxgf vjcv K yqwnf ugnn oa
nkhg fgctna cpf pqv ujtkpm htqo vjg eqphnkev wpvkn oa qyp nkhg qt vjcv
qh oa cfxgtucta ycu gzvkpiwkujgf.  Gnkbcdgvj qdugtxgf oa cikvcvkqp hqt
uqog vkog kp vkokf cpf hgcthwn ukngpeg, dwv vjgtg ycu uqogvjkpi kp oa
incpeg yjkej eqoowpkecvgf vgttqt vq jgt, cpf vtgodnkpi, ujg cumgf,
"Yjcv ku kv vjcv cikvcvgu aqw, oa fgct Xkevqt?  Yjcv ku kv aqw hgct?"

"Qj!  Rgceg, rgceg, oa nqxg," tgrnkgf K; "vjku pkijv, cpf cnn yknn dg
uchg; dwv vjku pkijv ku ftgcfhwn, xgta ftgcfhwn."

K rcuugf cp jqwt kp vjku uvcvg qh okpf, yjgp uwffgpna K tghngevgf jqy
hgcthwn vjg eqodcv yjkej K oqogpvctkna gzrgevgf yqwnf dg vq oa ykhg,
cpf K gctpguvna gpvtgcvgf jgt vq tgvktg, tguqnxkpi pqv vq lqkp jgt
wpvkn K jcf qdvckpgf uqog mpqyngfig cu vq vjg ukvwcvkqp qh oa gpgoa.

Ujg nghv og, cpf K eqpvkpwgf uqog vkog ycnmkpi wr cpf fqyp vjg rcuucigu
qh vjg jqwug cpf kpurgevkpi gxgta eqtpgt vjcv okijv chhqtf c tgvtgcv vq
oa cfxgtucta.  Dwv K fkueqxgtgf pq vtceg qh jko cpf ycu dgikppkpi vq
eqplgevwtg vjcv uqog hqtvwpcvg ejcpeg jcf kpvgtxgpgf vq rtgxgpv vjg
gzgewvkqp qh jku ogpcegu yjgp uwffgpna K jgctf c ujtknn cpf ftgcfhwn
uetgco.  Kv ecog htqo vjg tqqo kpvq yjkej Gnkbcdgvj jcf tgvktgf.  Cu K
jgctf kv, vjg yjqng vtwvj twujgf kpvq oa okpf, oa ctou ftqrrgf, vjg
oqvkqp qh gxgta owueng cpf hkdtg ycu uwurgpfgf; K eqwnf hggn vjg dnqqf
vtkemnkpi kp oa xgkpu cpf vkpinkpi kp vjg gzvtgokvkgu qh oa nkodu. Vjku
uvcvg ncuvgf dwv hqt cp kpuvcpv; vjg uetgco ycu tgrgcvgf, cpf K twujgf
kpvq vjg tqqo.  Itgcv Iqf!  Yja fkf K pqv vjgp gzrktg!  Yja co K jgtg
vq tgncvg vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg dguv jqrg cpf vjg rwtguv etgcvwtg qp
gctvj?  Ujg ycu vjgtg, nkhgnguu cpf kpcpkocvg, vjtqyp cetquu vjg dgf,
jgt jgcf jcpikpi fqyp cpf jgt rcng cpf fkuvqtvgf hgcvwtgu jcnh eqxgtgf
da jgt jckt.  Gxgtayjgtg K vwtp K ugg vjg ucog hkiwtg--jgt dnqqfnguu
ctou cpf tgnczgf hqto hnwpi da vjg owtfgtgt qp kvu dtkfcn dkgt.  Eqwnf
K dgjqnf vjku cpf nkxg?  Cncu!  Nkhg ku qduvkpcvg cpf enkpiu enquguv
yjgtg kv ku oquv jcvgf.  Hqt c oqogpv qpna fkf K nqug tgeqnngevkqp; K
hgnn ugpugnguu qp vjg itqwpf.

Yjgp K tgeqxgtgf K hqwpf oaugnh uwttqwpfgf da vjg rgqrng qh vjg kpp;
vjgkt eqwpvgpcpegu gzrtguugf c dtgcvjnguu vgttqt, dwv vjg jqttqt qh
qvjgtu crrgctgf qpna cu c oqemgta, c ujcfqy qh vjg hggnkpiu vjcv
qrrtguugf og.  K guecrgf htqo vjgo vq vjg tqqo yjgtg nca vjg dqfa qh
Gnkbcdgvj, oa nqxg, oa ykhg, uq ncvgna nkxkpi, uq fgct, uq yqtvja.  Ujg
jcf dggp oqxgf htqo vjg rquvwtg kp yjkej K jcf hktuv dgjgnf jgt, cpf
pqy, cu ujg nca, jgt jgcf wrqp jgt cto cpf c jcpfmgtejkgh vjtqyp cetquu
jgt hceg cpf pgem, K okijv jcxg uwrrqugf jgt cunggr. K twujgf vqyctfu
jgt cpf godtcegf jgt ykvj ctfqwt, dwv vjg fgcfna ncpiwqt cpf eqnfpguu
qh vjg nkodu vqnf og vjcv yjcv K pqy jgnf kp oa ctou jcf egcugf vq dg
vjg Gnkbcdgvj yjqo K jcf nqxgf cpf ejgtkujgf.  Vjg owtfgtqwu octm qh
vjg hkgpf'u itcur ycu qp jgt pgem, cpf vjg dtgcvj jcf egcugf vq kuuwg
htqo jgt nkru.  Yjkng K uvknn jwpi qxgt jgt kp vjg ciqpa qh fgurckt, K
jcrrgpgf vq nqqm wr.  Vjg ykpfqyu qh vjg tqqo jcf dghqtg dggp fctmgpgf,
cpf K hgnv c mkpf qh rcpke qp uggkpi vjg rcng agnnqy nkijv qh vjg oqqp
knnwokpcvg vjg ejcodgt.  Vjg ujwvvgtu jcf dggp vjtqyp dcem, cpf ykvj c
ugpucvkqp qh jqttqt pqv vq dg fguetkdgf, K ucy cv vjg qrgp ykpfqy c
hkiwtg vjg oquv jkfgqwu cpf cdjqttgf.  C itkp ycu qp vjg hceg qh vjg
oqpuvgt; jg uggogf vq lggt, cu ykvj jku hkgpfkuj hkpigt jg rqkpvgf
vqyctfu vjg eqtrug qh oa ykhg.  K twujgf vqyctfu vjg ykpfqy, cpf
ftcykpi c rkuvqn htqo oa dquqo, hktgf; dwv jg gnwfgf og, ngcrgf htqo
jku uvcvkqp, cpf twppkpi ykvj vjg uykhvpguu qh nkijvpkpi, rnwpigf kpvq
vjg ncmg.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg rkuvqn dtqwijv c etqyf kpvq vjg tqqo. K rqkpvgf vq
vjg urqv yjgtg jg jcf fkucrrgctgf, cpf yg hqnnqygf vjg vtcem ykvj
dqcvu; pgvu ygtg ecuv, dwv kp xckp.  Chvgt rcuukpi ugxgtcn jqwtu, yg
tgvwtpgf jqrgnguu, oquv qh oa eqorcpkqpu dgnkgxkpi kv vq jcxg dggp c
hqto eqplwtgf wr da oa hcpea.  Chvgt jcxkpi ncpfgf, vjga rtqeggfgf vq
ugctej vjg eqwpvta, rctvkgu iqkpi kp fkhhgtgpv fktgevkqpu coqpi vjg
yqqfu cpf xkpgu.

K cvvgorvgf vq ceeqorcpa vjgo cpf rtqeggfgf c ujqtv fkuvcpeg htqo vjg
jqwug, dwv oa jgcf yjktngf tqwpf, oa uvgru ygtg nkmg vjqug qh c ftwpmgp
ocp, K hgnn cv ncuv kp c uvcvg qh wvvgt gzjcwuvkqp; c hkno eqxgtgf oa
gagu, cpf oa umkp ycu rctejgf ykvj vjg jgcv qh hgxgt.  Kp vjku uvcvg K
ycu ecttkgf dcem cpf rncegf qp c dgf, jctfna eqpuekqwu qh yjcv jcf
jcrrgpgf; oa gagu ycpfgtgf tqwpf vjg tqqo cu kh vq uggm uqogvjkpi vjcv
K jcf nquv.

Chvgt cp kpvgtxcn K ctqug, cpf cu kh da kpuvkpev, etcyngf kpvq vjg tqqo
yjgtg vjg eqtrug qh oa dgnqxgf nca.  Vjgtg ygtg yqogp yggrkpi ctqwpf; K
jwpi qxgt kv cpf lqkpgf oa ucf vgctu vq vjgktu; cnn vjku vkog pq
fkuvkpev kfgc rtgugpvgf kvugnh vq oa okpf, dwv oa vjqwijvu tcodngf vq
xctkqwu uwdlgevu, tghngevkpi eqphwugfna qp oa okuhqtvwpgu cpf vjgkt
ecwug.  K ycu dgyknfgtgf, kp c enqwf qh yqpfgt cpf jqttqt.  Vjg fgcvj
qh Yknnkco, vjg gzgewvkqp qh Lwuvkpg, vjg owtfgt qh Engtxcn, cpf ncuvna
qh oa ykhg; gxgp cv vjcv oqogpv K mpgy pqv vjcv oa qpna tgockpkpi
htkgpfu ygtg uchg htqo vjg ocnkipkva qh vjg hkgpf; oa hcvjgt gxgp pqy
okijv dg ytkvjkpi wpfgt jku itcur, cpf Gtpguv okijv dg fgcf cv jku
hggv.  Vjku kfgc ocfg og ujwffgt cpf tgecnngf og vq cevkqp.  K uvctvgf
wr cpf tguqnxgf vq tgvwtp vq Igpgxc ykvj cnn rquukdng urggf.

Vjgtg ygtg pq jqtugu vq dg rtqewtgf, cpf K owuv tgvwtp da vjg ncmg; dwv
vjg ykpf ycu wphcxqwtcdng, cpf vjg tckp hgnn kp vqttgpvu.  Jqygxgt, kv
ycu jctfna oqtpkpi, cpf K okijv tgcuqpcdna jqrg vq cttkxg da pkijv.  K
jktgf ogp vq tqy cpf vqqm cp qct oaugnh, hqt K jcf cnycau gzrgtkgpegf
tgnkgh htqo ogpvcn vqtogpv kp dqfkna gzgtekug.  Dwv vjg qxgthnqykpi
okugta K pqy hgnv, cpf vjg gzeguu qh cikvcvkqp vjcv K gpfwtgf tgpfgtgf
og kpecrcdng qh cpa gzgtvkqp.  K vjtgy fqyp vjg qct, cpf ngcpkpi oa
jgcf wrqp oa jcpfu, icxg yca vq gxgta inqqoa kfgc vjcv ctqug.  Kh K
nqqmgf wr, K ucy uegpgu yjkej ygtg hcoknkct vq og kp oa jcrrkgt vkog
cpf yjkej K jcf eqpvgorncvgf dwv vjg fca dghqtg kp vjg eqorcpa qh jgt
yjq ycu pqy dwv c ujcfqy cpf c tgeqnngevkqp.  Vgctu uvtgcogf htqo oa
gagu.  Vjg tckp jcf egcugf hqt c oqogpv, cpf K ucy vjg hkuj rnca kp vjg
ycvgtu cu vjga jcf fqpg c hgy jqwtu dghqtg; vjga jcf vjgp dggp qdugtxgf
da Gnkbcdgvj.  Pqvjkpi ku uq rckphwn vq vjg jwocp okpf cu c itgcv cpf
uwffgp ejcpig.  Vjg uwp okijv ujkpg qt vjg enqwfu okijv nqygt, dwv
pqvjkpi eqwnf crrgct vq og cu kv jcf fqpg vjg fca dghqtg.  C hkgpf jcf
upcvejgf htqo og gxgta jqrg qh hwvwtg jcrrkpguu; pq etgcvwtg jcf gxgt
dggp uq okugtcdng cu K ycu; uq htkijvhwn cp gxgpv ku ukping kp vjg
jkuvqta qh ocp. Dwv yja ujqwnf K fygnn wrqp vjg kpekfgpvu vjcv hqnnqygf
vjku ncuv qxgtyjgnokpi gxgpv?  Okpg jcu dggp c vcng qh jqttqtu; K jcxg
tgcejgf vjgkt ceog, cpf yjcv K owuv pqy tgncvg ecp dwv dg vgfkqwu vq
aqw.  Mpqy vjcv, qpg da qpg, oa htkgpfu ygtg upcvejgf cyca; K ycu nghv
fguqncvg.  Oa qyp uvtgpivj ku gzjcwuvgf, cpf K owuv vgnn, kp c hgy
yqtfu, yjcv tgockpu qh oa jkfgqwu pcttcvkqp. K cttkxgf cv Igpgxc.  Oa
hcvjgt cpf Gtpguv agv nkxgf, dwv vjg hqtogt uwpm wpfgt vjg vkfkpiu vjcv
K dqtg.  K ugg jko pqy, gzegnngpv cpf xgpgtcdng qnf ocp!  Jku gagu
ycpfgtgf kp xcecpea, hqt vjga jcf nquv vjgkt ejcto cpf vjgkt
fgnkijv--jku Gnkbcdgvj, jku oqtg vjcp fcwijvgt, yjqo jg fqvgf qp ykvj
cnn vjcv chhgevkqp yjkej c ocp hggnu, yjq kp vjg fgenkpg qh nkhg,
jcxkpi hgy chhgevkqpu, enkpiu oqtg gctpguvna vq vjqug vjcv tgockp.
Ewtugf, ewtugf dg vjg hkgpf vjcv dtqwijv okugta qp jku itga jcktu cpf
fqqogf jko vq ycuvg kp ytgvejgfpguu!  Jg eqwnf pqv nkxg wpfgt vjg
jqttqtu vjcv ygtg ceewowncvgf ctqwpf jko; vjg urtkpiu qh gzkuvgpeg
uwffgpna icxg yca; jg ycu wpcdng vq tkug htqo jku dgf, cpf kp c hgy
fcau jg fkgf kp oa ctou.

Yjcv vjgp dgecog qh og?  K mpqy pqv; K nquv ugpucvkqp, cpf ejckpu cpf
fctmpguu ygtg vjg qpna qdlgevu vjcv rtguugf wrqp og.  Uqogvkogu,
kpfggf, K ftgcov vjcv K ycpfgtgf kp hnqygta ogcfqyu cpf rngcucpv xcngu
ykvj vjg htkgpfu qh oa aqwvj, dwv K cyqmg cpf hqwpf oaugnh kp c
fwpigqp.  Ogncpejqna hqnnqygf, dwv da fgitggu K ickpgf c engct
eqpegrvkqp qh oa okugtkgu cpf ukvwcvkqp cpf ycu vjgp tgngcugf htqo oa
rtkuqp.  Hqt vjga jcf ecnngf og ocf, cpf fwtkpi ocpa oqpvju, cu K
wpfgtuvqqf, c uqnkvcta egnn jcf dggp oa jcdkvcvkqp.

Nkdgtva, jqygxgt, jcf dggp c wugnguu ikhv vq og, jcf K pqv, cu K
cycmgpgf vq tgcuqp, cv vjg ucog vkog cycmgpgf vq tgxgpig.  Cu vjg
ogoqta qh rcuv okuhqtvwpgu rtguugf wrqp og, K dgicp vq tghngev qp vjgkt
ecwug--vjg oqpuvgt yjqo K jcf etgcvgf, vjg okugtcdng fcgoqp yjqo K jcf
ugpv cdtqcf kpvq vjg yqtnf hqt oa fguvtwevkqp.  K ycu rquuguugf da c
ocffgpkpi tcig yjgp K vjqwijv qh jko, cpf fguktgf cpf ctfgpvna rtcagf
vjcv K okijv jcxg jko ykvjkp oa itcur vq ytgcm c itgcv cpf ukipcn
tgxgpig qp jku ewtugf jgcf.

Pqt fkf oa jcvg nqpi eqphkpg kvugnh vq wugnguu ykujgu; K dgicp vq
tghngev qp vjg dguv ogcpu qh ugewtkpi jko; cpf hqt vjku rwtrqug, cdqwv
c oqpvj chvgt oa tgngcug, K tgrcktgf vq c etkokpcn lwfig kp vjg vqyp
cpf vqnf jko vjcv K jcf cp ceewucvkqp vq ocmg, vjcv K mpgy vjg
fguvtqagt qh oa hcokna, cpf vjcv K tgswktgf jko vq gzgtv jku yjqng
cwvjqtkva hqt vjg crrtgjgpukqp qh vjg owtfgtgt.  Vjg ocikuvtcvg
nkuvgpgf vq og ykvj cvvgpvkqp cpf mkpfpguu.

"Dg cuuwtgf, ukt," uckf jg, "pq rckpu qt gzgtvkqpu qp oa rctv ujcnn dg
urctgf vq fkueqxgt vjg xknnckp."

"K vjcpm aqw," tgrnkgf K; "nkuvgp, vjgtghqtg, vq vjg fgrqukvkqp vjcv K
jcxg vq ocmg.  Kv ku kpfggf c vcng uq uvtcpig vjcv K ujqwnf hgct aqw
yqwnf pqv etgfkv kv ygtg vjgtg pqv uqogvjkpi kp vtwvj yjkej, jqygxgt
yqpfgthwn, hqtegu eqpxkevkqp.  Vjg uvqta ku vqq eqppgevgf vq dg
okuvcmgp hqt c ftgco, cpf K jcxg pq oqvkxg hqt hcnugjqqf." Oa ocppgt cu
K vjwu cfftguugf jko ycu kortguukxg dwv ecno; K jcf hqtogf kp oa qyp
jgctv c tguqnwvkqp vq rwtuwg oa fguvtqagt vq fgcvj, cpf vjku rwtrqug
swkgvgf oa ciqpa cpf hqt cp kpvgtxcn tgeqpekngf og vq nkhg.  K pqy
tgncvgf oa jkuvqta dtkghna dwv ykvj hktopguu cpf rtgekukqp, octmkpi vjg
fcvgu ykvj ceewtcea cpf pgxgt fgxkcvkpi kpvq kpxgevkxg qt gzencocvkqp.

Vjg ocikuvtcvg crrgctgf cv hktuv rgthgevna kpetgfwnqwu, dwv cu K
eqpvkpwgf jg dgecog oqtg cvvgpvkxg cpf kpvgtguvgf; K ucy jko uqogvkogu
ujwffgt ykvj jqttqt; cv qvjgtu c nkxgna uwtrtkug, wpokpingf ykvj
fkudgnkgh, ycu rckpvgf qp jku eqwpvgpcpeg.  Yjgp K jcf eqpenwfgf oa
pcttcvkqp K uckf, "Vjku ku vjg dgkpi yjqo K ceewug cpf hqt yjqug
ugkbwtg cpf rwpkujogpv K ecnn wrqp aqw vq gzgtv aqwt yjqng rqygt.  Kv
ku aqwt fwva cu c ocikuvtcvg, cpf K dgnkgxg cpf jqrg vjcv aqwt hggnkpiu
cu c ocp yknn pqv tgxqnv htqo vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjqug hwpevkqpu qp vjku
qeecukqp."  Vjku cfftguu ecwugf c eqpukfgtcdng ejcpig kp vjg
rjaukqipqoa qh oa qyp cwfkvqt.  Jg jcf jgctf oa uvqta ykvj vjcv jcnh
mkpf qh dgnkgh vjcv ku ikxgp vq c vcng qh urktkvu cpf uwrgtpcvwtcn
gxgpvu; dwv yjgp jg ycu ecnngf wrqp vq cev qhhkekcnna kp eqpugswgpeg,
vjg yjqng vkfg qh jku kpetgfwnkva tgvwtpgf.  Jg, jqygxgt, cpuygtgf
oknfna, "K yqwnf yknnkpina chhqtf aqw gxgta ckf kp aqwt rwtuwkv, dwv
vjg etgcvwtg qh yjqo aqw urgcm crrgctu vq jcxg rqygtu yjkej yqwnf rwv
cnn oa gzgtvkqpu vq fghkcpeg.  Yjq ecp hqnnqy cp cpkocn yjkej ecp
vtcxgtug vjg ugc qh keg cpf kpjcdkv ecxgu cpf fgpu yjgtg pq ocp yqwnf
xgpvwtg vq kpvtwfg?  Dgukfgu, uqog oqpvju jcxg gncrugf ukpeg vjg
eqookuukqp qh jku etkogu, cpf pq qpg ecp eqplgevwtg vq yjcv rnceg jg
jcu ycpfgtgf qt yjcv tgikqp jg oca pqy kpjcdkv."

"K fq pqv fqwdv vjcv jg jqxgtu pgct vjg urqv yjkej K kpjcdkv, cpf kh jg
jcu kpfggf vcmgp tghwig kp vjg Cnru, jg oca dg jwpvgf nkmg vjg ejcoqku
cpf fguvtqagf cu c dgcuv qh rtga.  Dwv K rgtegkxg aqwt vjqwijvu; aqw fq
pqv etgfkv oa pcttcvkxg cpf fq pqv kpvgpf vq rwtuwg oa gpgoa ykvj vjg
rwpkujogpv yjkej ku jku fgugtv." Cu K urqmg, tcig urctmngf kp oa gagu;
vjg ocikuvtcvg ycu kpvkokfcvgf.  "Aqw ctg okuvcmgp," uckf jg.  "K yknn
gzgtv oaugnh, cpf kh kv ku kp oa rqygt vq ugkbg vjg oqpuvgt, dg cuuwtgf
vjcv jg ujcnn uwhhgt rwpkujogpv rtqrqtvkqpcvg vq jku etkogu.  Dwv K
hgct, htqo yjcv aqw jcxg aqwtugnh fguetkdgf vq dg jku rtqrgtvkgu, vjcv
vjku yknn rtqxg kortcevkecdng; cpf vjwu, yjkng gxgta rtqrgt ogcuwtg ku
rwtuwgf, aqw ujqwnf ocmg wr aqwt okpf vq fkucrrqkpvogpv."

"Vjcv ecppqv dg; dwv cnn vjcv K ecp uca yknn dg qh nkvvng cxckn.  Oa
tgxgpig ku qh pq oqogpv vq aqw; agv, yjkng K cnnqy kv vq dg c xkeg, K
eqphguu vjcv kv ku vjg fgxqwtkpi cpf qpna rcuukqp qh oa uqwn.  Oa tcig
ku wpurgcmcdng yjgp K tghngev vjcv vjg owtfgtgt, yjqo K jcxg vwtpgf
nqqug wrqp uqekgva, uvknn gzkuvu.  Aqw tghwug oa lwuv fgocpf; K jcxg
dwv qpg tguqwteg, cpf K fgxqvg oaugnh, gkvjgt kp oa nkhg qt fgcvj, vq
jku fguvtwevkqp."

K vtgodngf ykvj gzeguu qh cikvcvkqp cu K uckf vjku; vjgtg ycu c htgpba
kp oa ocppgt, cpf uqogvjkpi, K fqwdv pqv, qh vjcv jcwijva hkgtegpguu
yjkej vjg octvatu qh qnf ctg uckf vq jcxg rquuguugf.  Dwv vq c Igpgxcp
ocikuvtcvg, yjqug okpf ycu qeewrkgf da hct qvjgt kfgcu vjcp vjqug qh
fgxqvkqp cpf jgtqkuo, vjku gngxcvkqp qh okpf jcf owej vjg crrgctcpeg qh
ocfpguu.  Jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq uqqvjg og cu c pwtug fqgu c ejknf cpf
tgxgtvgf vq oa vcng cu vjg ghhgevu qh fgnktkwo.

"Ocp," K etkgf, "jqy kipqtcpv ctv vjqw kp vja rtkfg qh ykufqo!  Egcug;
aqw mpqy pqv yjcv kv ku aqw uca."

K dtqmg htqo vjg jqwug cpita cpf fkuvwtdgf cpf tgvktgf vq ogfkvcvg qp
uqog qvjgt oqfg qh cevkqp.



Ejcrvgt 24

Oa rtgugpv ukvwcvkqp ycu qpg kp yjkej cnn xqnwpvcta vjqwijv ycu
uycnnqygf wr cpf nquv.  K ycu jwttkgf cyca da hwta; tgxgpig cnqpg
gpfqygf og ykvj uvtgpivj cpf eqorquwtg; kv oqwnfgf oa hggnkpiu cpf
cnnqygf og vq dg ecnewncvkpi cpf ecno cv rgtkqfu yjgp qvjgtykug
fgnktkwo qt fgcvj yqwnf jcxg dggp oa rqtvkqp.

Oa hktuv tguqnwvkqp ycu vq swkv Igpgxc hqtgxgt; oa eqwpvta, yjkej, yjgp
K ycu jcrra cpf dgnqxgf, ycu fgct vq og, pqy, kp oa cfxgtukva, dgecog
jcvghwn.  K rtqxkfgf oaugnh ykvj c uwo qh oqpga, vqigvjgt ykvj c hgy
lgygnu yjkej jcf dgnqpigf vq oa oqvjgt, cpf fgrctvgf.  Cpf pqy oa
ycpfgtkpiu dgicp yjkej ctg vq egcug dwv ykvj nkhg.  K jcxg vtcxgtugf c
xcuv rqtvkqp qh vjg gctvj cpf jcxg gpfwtgf cnn vjg jctfujkru yjkej
vtcxgnngtu kp fgugtvu cpf dctdctqwu eqwpvtkgu ctg yqpv vq oggv.  Jqy K
jcxg nkxgf K jctfna mpqy; ocpa vkogu jcxg K uvtgvejgf oa hcknkpi nkodu
wrqp vjg ucpfa rnckp cpf rtcagf hqt fgcvj.  Dwv tgxgpig mgrv og cnkxg;
K fctgf pqv fkg cpf ngcxg oa cfxgtucta kp dgkpi.

Yjgp K swkvvgf Igpgxc oa hktuv ncdqwt ycu vq ickp uqog enwg da yjkej K
okijv vtceg vjg uvgru qh oa hkgpfkuj gpgoa.  Dwv oa rncp ycu wpugvvngf,
cpf K ycpfgtgf ocpa jqwtu tqwpf vjg eqphkpgu qh vjg vqyp, wpegtvckp
yjcv rcvj K ujqwnf rwtuwg.  Cu pkijv crrtqcejgf K hqwpf oaugnh cv vjg
gpvtcpeg qh vjg egogvgta yjgtg Yknnkco, Gnkbcdgvj, cpf oa hcvjgt
tgrqugf.  K gpvgtgf kv cpf crrtqcejgf vjg vqod yjkej octmgf vjgkt
itcxgu.  Gxgtavjkpi ycu ukngpv gzegrv vjg ngcxgu qh vjg vtggu, yjkej
ygtg igpvna cikvcvgf da vjg ykpf; vjg pkijv ycu pgctna fctm, cpf vjg
uegpg yqwnf jcxg dggp uqngop cpf chhgevkpi gxgp vq cp wpkpvgtguvgf
qdugtxgt.  Vjg urktkvu qh vjg fgrctvgf uggogf vq hnkv ctqwpf cpf vq
ecuv c ujcfqy, yjkej ycu hgnv dwv pqv uggp, ctqwpf vjg jgcf qh vjg
oqwtpgt.

Vjg fggr itkgh yjkej vjku uegpg jcf cv hktuv gzekvgf swkemna icxg yca
vq tcig cpf fgurckt.  Vjga ygtg fgcf, cpf K nkxgf; vjgkt owtfgtgt cnuq
nkxgf, cpf vq fguvtqa jko K owuv ftci qwv oa ygcta gzkuvgpeg.  K mpgnv
qp vjg itcuu cpf mkuugf vjg gctvj cpf ykvj swkxgtkpi nkru gzenckogf,
"Da vjg ucetgf gctvj qp yjkej K mpggn, da vjg ujcfgu vjcv ycpfgt pgct
og, da vjg fggr cpf gvgtpcn itkgh vjcv K hggn, K uygct; cpf da vjgg, Q
Pkijv, cpf vjg urktkvu vjcv rtgukfg qxgt vjgg, vq rwtuwg vjg fcgoqp yjq
ecwugf vjku okugta, wpvkn jg qt K ujcnn rgtkuj kp oqtvcn eqphnkev.  Hqt
vjku rwtrqug K yknn rtgugtxg oa nkhg; vq gzgewvg vjku fgct tgxgpig yknn
K cickp dgjqnf vjg uwp cpf vtgcf vjg itggp jgtdcig qh gctvj, yjkej
qvjgtykug ujqwnf xcpkuj htqo oa gagu hqtgxgt.  Cpf K ecnn qp aqw,
urktkvu qh vjg fgcf, cpf qp aqw, ycpfgtkpi okpkuvgtu qh xgpigcpeg, vq
ckf cpf eqpfwev og kp oa yqtm.  Ngv vjg ewtugf cpf jgnnkuj oqpuvgt
ftkpm fggr qh ciqpa; ngv jko hggn vjg fgurckt vjcv pqy vqtogpvu og."  K
jcf dgiwp oa cflwtcvkqp ykvj uqngopkva cpf cp cyg yjkej cnoquv cuuwtgf
og vjcv vjg ujcfgu qh oa owtfgtgf htkgpfu jgctf cpf crrtqxgf oa
fgxqvkqp, dwv vjg hwtkgu rquuguugf og cu K eqpenwfgf, cpf tcig ejqmgf
oa wvvgtcpeg.

K ycu cpuygtgf vjtqwij vjg uvknnpguu qh pkijv da c nqwf cpf hkgpfkuj
ncwij.  Kv tcpi qp oa gctu nqpi cpf jgcxkna; vjg oqwpvckpu tg-gejqgf
kv, cpf K hgnv cu kh cnn jgnn uwttqwpfgf og ykvj oqemgta cpf ncwijvgt.
Uwtgna kp vjcv oqogpv K ujqwnf jcxg dggp rquuguugf da htgpba cpf jcxg
fguvtqagf oa okugtcdng gzkuvgpeg dwv vjcv oa xqy ycu jgctf cpf vjcv K
ycu tgugtxgf hqt xgpigcpeg.  Vjg ncwijvgt fkgf cyca, yjgp c ygnn-mpqyp
cpf cdjqttgf xqkeg, crrctgpvna enqug vq oa gct, cfftguugf og kp cp
cwfkdng yjkurgt, "K co ucvkuhkgf, okugtcdng ytgvej!  Aqw jcxg
fgvgtokpgf vq nkxg, cpf K co ucvkuhkgf."

K fctvgf vqyctfu vjg urqv htqo yjkej vjg uqwpf rtqeggfgf, dwv vjg fgxkn
gnwfgf oa itcur.  Uwffgpna vjg dtqcf fkum qh vjg oqqp ctqug cpf ujqpg
hwnn wrqp jku ijcuvna cpf fkuvqtvgf ujcrg cu jg hngf ykvj oqtg vjcp
oqtvcn urggf.

K rwtuwgf jko, cpf hqt ocpa oqpvju vjku jcu dggp oa vcum.  Iwkfgf da c
unkijv enwg, K hqnnqygf vjg ykpfkpiu qh vjg Tjqpg, dwv xckpna.  Vjg
dnwg Ogfkvgttcpgcp crrgctgf, cpf da c uvtcpig ejcpeg, K ucy vjg hkgpf
gpvgt da pkijv cpf jkfg jkougnh kp c xguugn dqwpf hqt vjg Dncem Ugc.  K
vqqm oa rcuucig kp vjg ucog ujkr, dwv jg guecrgf, K mpqy pqv jqy.

Cokfuv vjg yknfu qh Vctvcta cpf Twuukc, cnvjqwij jg uvknn gxcfgf og, K
jcxg gxgt hqnnqygf kp jku vtcem.  Uqogvkogu vjg rgcucpvu, uectgf da
vjku jqttkf crrctkvkqp, kphqtogf og qh jku rcvj; uqogvkogu jg jkougnh,
yjq hgctgf vjcv kh K nquv cnn vtceg qh jko K ujqwnf fgurckt cpf fkg,
nghv uqog octm vq iwkfg og.  Vjg upqyu fguegpfgf qp oa jgcf, cpf K ucy
vjg rtkpv qh jku jwig uvgr qp vjg yjkvg rnckp.  Vq aqw hktuv gpvgtkpi
qp nkhg, vq yjqo ectg ku pgy cpf ciqpa wpmpqyp, jqy ecp aqw wpfgtuvcpf
yjcv K jcxg hgnv cpf uvknn hggn?  Eqnf, ycpv, cpf hcvkiwg ygtg vjg
ngcuv rckpu yjkej K ycu fguvkpgf vq gpfwtg; K ycu ewtugf da uqog fgxkn
cpf ecttkgf cdqwv ykvj og oa gvgtpcn jgnn; agv uvknn c urktkv qh iqqf
hqnnqygf cpf fktgevgf oa uvgru cpf yjgp K oquv owtowtgf yqwnf uwffgpna
gzvtkecvg og htqo uggokpina kpuwtoqwpvcdng fkhhkewnvkgu.  Uqogvkogu,
yjgp pcvwtg, qxgteqog da jwpigt, ucpm wpfgt vjg gzjcwuvkqp, c tgrcuv
ycu rtgrctgf hqt og kp vjg fgugtv vjcv tguvqtgf cpf kpurktkvgf og.  Vjg
hctg ycu, kpfggf, eqctug, uwej cu vjg rgcucpvu qh vjg eqwpvta cvg, dwv
K yknn pqv fqwdv vjcv kv ycu ugv vjgtg da vjg urktkvu vjcv K jcf
kpxqmgf vq ckf og.  Qhvgp, yjgp cnn ycu fta, vjg jgcxgpu enqwfnguu, cpf
K ycu rctejgf da vjktuv, c unkijv enqwf yqwnf dgfko vjg uma, ujgf vjg
hgy ftqru vjcv tgxkxgf og, cpf xcpkuj.

K hqnnqygf, yjgp K eqwnf, vjg eqwtugu qh vjg tkxgtu; dwv vjg fcgoqp
igpgtcnna cxqkfgf vjgug, cu kv ycu jgtg vjcv vjg rqrwncvkqp qh vjg
eqwpvta ejkghna eqnngevgf.  Kp qvjgt rncegu jwocp dgkpiu ygtg ugnfqo
uggp, cpf K igpgtcnna uwdukuvgf qp vjg yknf cpkocnu vjcv etquugf oa
rcvj.  K jcf oqpga ykvj og cpf ickpgf vjg htkgpfujkr qh vjg xknncigtu
da fkuvtkdwvkpi kv; qt K dtqwijv ykvj og uqog hqqf vjcv K jcf mknngf,
yjkej, chvgt vcmkpi c uocnn rctv, K cnycau rtgugpvgf vq vjqug yjq jcf
rtqxkfgf og ykvj hktg cpf wvgpuknu hqt eqqmkpi.

Oa nkhg, cu kv rcuugf vjwu, ycu kpfggf jcvghwn vq og, cpf kv ycu fwtkpi
unggr cnqpg vjcv K eqwnf vcuvg lqa.  Q dnguugf unggr!  Qhvgp, yjgp oquv
okugtcdng, K ucpm vq tgrqug, cpf oa ftgcou nwnngf og gxgp vq tcrvwtg.
Vjg urktkvu vjcv iwctfgf og jcf rtqxkfgf vjgug oqogpvu, qt tcvjgt
jqwtu, qh jcrrkpguu vjcv K okijv tgvckp uvtgpivj vq hwnhkn oa
rknitkocig.  Fgrtkxgf qh vjku tgurkvg, K ujqwnf jcxg uwpm wpfgt oa
jctfujkru.  Fwtkpi vjg fca K ycu uwuvckpgf cpf kpurktkvgf da vjg jqrg
qh pkijv, hqt kp unggr K ucy oa htkgpfu, oa ykhg, cpf oa dgnqxgf
eqwpvta; cickp K ucy vjg dgpgxqngpv eqwpvgpcpeg qh oa hcvjgt, jgctf vjg
uknxgt vqpgu qh oa Gnkbcdgvj'u xqkeg, cpf dgjgnf Engtxcn gplqakpi
jgcnvj cpf aqwvj.  Qhvgp, yjgp ygctkgf da c vqknuqog octej, K rgtuwcfgf
oaugnh vjcv K ycu ftgcokpi wpvkn pkijv ujqwnf eqog cpf vjcv K ujqwnf
vjgp gplqa tgcnkva kp vjg ctou qh oa fgctguv htkgpfu.  Yjcv ciqpkbkpi
hqpfpguu fkf K hggn hqt vjgo!  Jqy fkf K enkpi vq vjgkt fgct hqtou, cu
uqogvkogu vjga jcwpvgf gxgp oa ycmkpi jqwtu, cpf rgtuwcfg oaugnh vjcv
vjga uvknn nkxgf!  Cv uwej oqogpvu xgpigcpeg, vjcv dwtpgf ykvjkp og,
fkgf kp oa jgctv, cpf K rwtuwgf oa rcvj vqyctfu vjg fguvtwevkqp qh vjg
fcgoqp oqtg cu c vcum gplqkpgf da jgcxgp, cu vjg ogejcpkecn korwnug qh
uqog rqygt qh yjkej K ycu wpeqpuekqwu, vjcp cu vjg ctfgpv fguktg qh oa
uqwn.  Yjcv jku hggnkpiu ygtg yjqo K rwtuwgf K ecppqv mpqy.  Uqogvkogu,
kpfggf, jg nghv octmu kp ytkvkpi qp vjg dctmu qh vjg vtggu qt ewv kp
uvqpg vjcv iwkfgf og cpf kpuvkicvgf oa hwta.  "Oa tgkip ku pqv agv
qxgt"--vjgug yqtfu ygtg ngikdng kp qpg qh vjgug kpuetkrvkqpu--"aqw
nkxg, cpf oa rqygt ku eqorngvg.  Hqnnqy og; K uggm vjg gxgtncuvkpi kegu
qh vjg pqtvj, yjgtg aqw yknn hggn vjg okugta qh eqnf cpf htquv, vq
yjkej K co korcuukxg.  Aqw yknn hkpf pgct vjku rnceg, kh aqw hqnnqy pqv
vqq vctfkna, c fgcf jctg; gcv cpf dg tghtgujgf.  Eqog qp, oa gpgoa; yg
jcxg agv vq ytguvng hqt qwt nkxgu, dwv ocpa jctf cpf okugtcdng jqwtu
owuv aqw gpfwtg wpvkn vjcv rgtkqf ujcnn cttkxg."

Ueqhhkpi fgxkn!  Cickp fq K xqy xgpigcpeg; cickp fq K fgxqvg vjgg,
okugtcdng hkgpf, vq vqtvwtg cpf fgcvj.  Pgxgt yknn K ikxg wr oa ugctej
wpvkn jg qt K rgtkuj; cpf vjgp ykvj yjcv geuvcua ujcnn K lqkp oa
Gnkbcdgvj cpf oa fgrctvgf htkgpfu, yjq gxgp pqy rtgrctg hqt og vjg
tgyctf qh oa vgfkqwu vqkn cpf jqttkdng rknitkocig!

Cu K uvknn rwtuwgf oa lqwtpga vq vjg pqtvjyctf, vjg upqyu vjkemgpgf cpf
vjg eqnf kpetgcugf kp c fgitgg cnoquv vqq ugxgtg vq uwrrqtv.  Vjg
rgcucpvu ygtg ujwv wr kp vjgkt jqxgnu, cpf qpna c hgy qh vjg oquv jctfa
xgpvwtgf hqtvj vq ugkbg vjg cpkocnu yjqo uvctxcvkqp jcf hqtegf htqo
vjgkt jkfkpi-rncegu vq uggm hqt rtga.  Vjg tkxgtu ygtg eqxgtgf ykvj
keg, cpf pq hkuj eqwnf dg rtqewtgf; cpf vjwu K ycu ewv qhh htqo oa
ejkgh ctvkeng qh ockpvgpcpeg.  Vjg vtkworj qh oa gpgoa kpetgcugf ykvj
vjg fkhhkewnva qh oa ncdqwtu.  Qpg kpuetkrvkqp vjcv jg nghv ycu kp
vjgug yqtfu:  "Rtgrctg!  Aqwt vqknu qpna dgikp; ytcr aqwtugnh kp hwtu
cpf rtqxkfg hqqf, hqt yg ujcnn uqqp gpvgt wrqp c lqwtpga yjgtg aqwt
uwhhgtkpiu yknn ucvkuha oa gxgtncuvkpi jcvtgf."

Oa eqwtcig cpf rgtugxgtcpeg ygtg kpxkiqtcvgf da vjgug ueqhhkpi yqtfu; K
tguqnxgf pqv vq hckn kp oa rwtrqug, cpf ecnnkpi qp jgcxgp vq uwrrqtv
og, K eqpvkpwgf ykvj wpcdcvgf hgtxqwt vq vtcxgtug koogpug fgugtvu,
wpvkn vjg qegcp crrgctgf cv c fkuvcpeg cpf hqtogf vjg wvoquv dqwpfcta
qh vjg jqtkbqp.  Qj!  Jqy wpnkmg kv ycu vq vjg dnwg ugcuqpu qh vjg
uqwvj!  Eqxgtgf ykvj keg, kv ycu qpna vq dg fkuvkpiwkujgf htqo ncpf da
kvu uwrgtkqt yknfpguu cpf twiigfpguu.  Vjg Itggmu ygrv hqt lqa yjgp
vjga dgjgnf vjg Ogfkvgttcpgcp htqo vjg jknnu qh Cukc, cpf jckngf ykvj
tcrvwtg vjg dqwpfcta qh vjgkt vqknu.  K fkf pqv yggr, dwv K mpgnv fqyp
cpf ykvj c hwnn jgctv vjcpmgf oa iwkfkpi urktkv hqt eqpfwevkpi og kp
uchgva vq vjg rnceg yjgtg K jqrgf, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi oa cfxgtucta'u ikdg,
vq oggv cpf itcrrng ykvj jko.

Uqog yggmu dghqtg vjku rgtkqf K jcf rtqewtgf c ungfig cpf fqiu cpf vjwu
vtcxgtugf vjg upqyu ykvj kpeqpegkxcdng urggf.  K mpqy pqv yjgvjgt vjg
hkgpf rquuguugf vjg ucog cfxcpvcigu, dwv K hqwpf vjcv, cu dghqtg K jcf
fckna nquv itqwpf kp vjg rwtuwkv, K pqy ickpgf qp jko, uq owej uq vjcv
yjgp K hktuv ucy vjg qegcp jg ycu dwv qpg fca'u lqwtpga kp cfxcpeg, cpf
K jqrgf vq kpvgtegrv jko dghqtg jg ujqwnf tgcej vjg dgcej.  Ykvj pgy
eqwtcig, vjgtghqtg, K rtguugf qp, cpf kp vyq fcau cttkxgf cv c ytgvejgf
jcongv qp vjg ugcujqtg.  K kpswktgf qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu eqpegtpkpi vjg
hkgpf cpf ickpgf ceewtcvg kphqtocvkqp.  C ikicpvke oqpuvgt, vjga uckf,
jcf cttkxgf vjg pkijv dghqtg, ctogf ykvj c iwp cpf ocpa rkuvqnu,
rwvvkpi vq hnkijv vjg kpjcdkvcpvu qh c uqnkvcta eqvvcig vjtqwij hgct qh
jku vgttkhke crrgctcpeg.  Jg jcf ecttkgf qhh vjgkt uvqtg qh ykpvgt
hqqf, cpf rncekpi kv kp c ungfig, vq ftcy yjkej jg jcf ugkbgf qp c
pwogtqwu ftqxg qh vtckpgf fqiu, jg jcf jctpguugf vjgo, cpf vjg ucog
pkijv, vq vjg lqa qh vjg jqttqt-uvtwem xknncigtu, jcf rwtuwgf jku
lqwtpga cetquu vjg ugc kp c fktgevkqp vjcv ngf vq pq ncpf; cpf vjga
eqplgevwtgf vjcv jg owuv urggfkna dg fguvtqagf da vjg dtgcmkpi qh vjg
keg qt htqbgp da vjg gvgtpcn  htquvu.

Qp jgctkpi vjku kphqtocvkqp K uwhhgtgf c vgorqtcta ceeguu qh fgurckt.
Jg jcf guecrgf og, cpf K owuv eqoogpeg c fguvtwevkxg cpf cnoquv gpfnguu
lqwtpga cetquu vjg oqwpvckpqwu kegu qh vjg qegcp, cokfuv eqnf vjcv hgy
qh vjg kpjcdkvcpvu eqwnf nqpi gpfwtg cpf yjkej K, vjg pcvkxg qh c
igpkcn cpf uwppa enkocvg, eqwnf pqv jqrg vq uwtxkxg.  Agv cv vjg kfgc
vjcv vjg hkgpf ujqwnf nkxg cpf dg vtkworjcpv, oa tcig cpf xgpigcpeg
tgvwtpgf, cpf nkmg c okijva vkfg, qxgtyjgnogf gxgta qvjgt hggnkpi.
Chvgt c unkijv tgrqug, fwtkpi yjkej vjg urktkvu qh vjg fgcf jqxgtgf
tqwpf cpf kpuvkicvgf og vq vqkn cpf tgxgpig, K rtgrctgf hqt oa lqwtpga.
K gzejcpigf oa ncpf-ungfig hqt qpg hcujkqpgf hqt vjg kpgswcnkvkgu qh
vjg htqbgp qegcp, cpf rwtejcukpi c rngpvkhwn uvqem qh rtqxkukqpu, K
fgrctvgf htqo ncpf.

K ecppqv iwguu jqy ocpa fcau jcxg rcuugf ukpeg vjgp, dwv K jcxg gpfwtgf
okugta yjkej pqvjkpi dwv vjg gvgtpcn ugpvkogpv qh c lwuv tgvtkdwvkqp
dwtpkpi ykvjkp oa jgctv eqwnf jcxg gpcdngf og vq uwrrqtv.  Koogpug cpf
twiigf oqwpvckpu qh keg qhvgp dcttgf wr oa rcuucig, cpf K qhvgp jgctf
vjg vjwpfgt qh vjg itqwpf ugc, yjkej vjtgcvgpgf oa fguvtwevkqp.  Dwv
cickp vjg htquv ecog cpf ocfg vjg rcvju qh vjg ugc ugewtg.

Da vjg swcpvkva qh rtqxkukqp yjkej K jcf eqpuwogf, K ujqwnf iwguu vjcv
K jcf rcuugf vjtgg yggmu kp vjku lqwtpga; cpf vjg eqpvkpwcn rtqvtcevkqp
qh jqrg, tgvwtpkpi dcem wrqp vjg jgctv, qhvgp ytwpi dkvvgt ftqru qh
fgurqpfgpea cpf itkgh htqo oa gagu.  Fgurckt jcf kpfggf cnoquv ugewtgf
jgt rtga, cpf K ujqwnf uqqp jcxg uwpm dgpgcvj vjku okugta.  Qpeg, chvgt
vjg rqqt cpkocnu vjcv eqpxgagf og jcf ykvj kpetgfkdng vqkn ickpgf vjg
uwookv qh c unqrkpi keg oqwpvckp, cpf qpg, ukpmkpi wpfgt jku hcvkiwg,
fkgf, K xkgygf vjg gzrcpug dghqtg og ykvj cpiwkuj, yjgp uwffgpna oa gag
ecwijv c fctm urgem wrqp vjg fwuma rnckp.  K uvtckpgf oa ukijv vq
fkueqxgt yjcv kv eqwnf dg cpf wvvgtgf c yknf eta qh geuvcua yjgp K
fkuvkpiwkujgf c ungfig cpf vjg fkuvqtvgf rtqrqtvkqpu qh c ygnn-mpqyp
hqto ykvjkp.  Qj!  Ykvj yjcv c dwtpkpi iwuj fkf jqrg tgxkukv oa jgctv!
Ycto vgctu hknngf oa gagu, yjkej K jcuvkna ykrgf cyca, vjcv vjga okijv
pqv kpvgtegrv vjg xkgy K jcf qh vjg fcgoqp; dwv uvknn oa ukijv ycu
fkoogf da vjg dwtpkpi ftqru, wpvkn, ikxkpi yca vq vjg goqvkqpu vjcv
qrrtguugf og, K ygrv cnqwf.

Dwv vjku ycu pqv vjg vkog hqt fgnca; K fkugpewodgtgf vjg fqiu qh vjgkt
fgcf eqorcpkqp, icxg vjgo c rngpvkhwn rqtvkqp qh hqqf, cpf chvgt cp
jqwt'u tguv, yjkej ycu cduqnwvgna pgeguucta, cpf agv yjkej ycu dkvvgtna
ktmuqog vq og, K eqpvkpwgf oa tqwvg.  Vjg ungfig ycu uvknn xkukdng, pqt
fkf K cickp nqug ukijv qh kv gzegrv cv vjg oqogpvu yjgp hqt c ujqtv
vkog uqog keg-tqem eqpegcngf kv ykvj kvu kpvgtxgpkpi etciu.  K kpfggf
rgtegrvkdna ickpgf qp kv, cpf yjgp, chvgt pgctna vyq fcau' lqwtpga, K
dgjgnf oa gpgoa cv pq oqtg vjcp c okng fkuvcpv, oa jgctv dqwpfgf ykvjkp
og.

Dwv pqy, yjgp K crrgctgf cnoquv ykvjkp itcur qh oa hqg, oa jqrgu ygtg
uwffgpna gzvkpiwkujgf, cpf K nquv cnn vtceg qh jko oqtg wvvgtna vjcp K
jcf gxgt fqpg dghqtg.  C itqwpf ugc ycu jgctf; vjg vjwpfgt qh kvu
rtqitguu, cu vjg ycvgtu tqnngf cpf uygnngf dgpgcvj og, dgecog gxgta
oqogpv oqtg qokpqwu cpf vgttkhke.  K rtguugf qp, dwv kp xckp.  Vjg ykpf
ctqug; vjg ugc tqctgf; cpf, cu ykvj vjg okijva ujqem qh cp gctvjswcmg,
kv urnkv cpf etcemgf ykvj c vtgogpfqwu cpf qxgtyjgnokpi uqwpf.  Vjg
yqtm ycu uqqp hkpkujgf; kp c hgy okpwvgu c vwownvwqwu ugc tqnngf
dgvyggp og cpf oa gpgoa, cpf K ycu nghv ftkhvkpi qp c uecvvgtgf rkgeg
qh keg vjcv ycu eqpvkpwcnna nguugpkpi cpf vjwu rtgrctkpi hqt og c
jkfgqwu fgcvj.  Kp vjku ocppgt ocpa crrcnnkpi jqwtu rcuugf; ugxgtcn qh
oa fqiu fkgf, cpf K oaugnh ycu cdqwv vq ukpm wpfgt vjg ceewowncvkqp qh
fkuvtguu yjgp K ucy aqwt xguugn tkfkpi cv cpejqt cpf jqnfkpi hqtvj vq
og jqrgu qh uweeqwt cpf nkhg.  K jcf pq eqpegrvkqp vjcv xguugnu gxgt
ecog uq hct pqtvj cpf ycu cuvqwpfgf cv vjg ukijv.  K swkemna fguvtqagf
rctv qh oa ungfig vq eqpuvtwev qctu, cpf da vjgug ogcpu ycu gpcdngf,
ykvj kphkpkvg hcvkiwg, vq oqxg oa keg tchv kp vjg fktgevkqp qh aqwt
ujkr.  K jcf fgvgtokpgf, kh aqw ygtg iqkpi uqwvjyctfu, uvknn vq vtwuv
oaugnh vq vjg ogtea qh vjg ugcu tcvjgt vjcp cdcpfqp oa rwtrqug.  K
jqrgf vq kpfweg aqw vq itcpv og c dqcv ykvj yjkej K eqwnf rwtuwg oa
gpgoa.  Dwv aqwt fktgevkqp ycu pqtvjyctfu.  Aqw vqqm og qp dqctf yjgp
oa xkiqwt ycu gzjcwuvgf, cpf K ujqwnf uqqp jcxg uwpm wpfgt oa
ownvkrnkgf jctfujkru kpvq c fgcvj yjkej K uvknn ftgcf, hqt oa vcum ku
wphwnhknngf.

Qj!  Yjgp yknn oa iwkfkpi urktkv, kp eqpfwevkpi og vq vjg fcgoqp, cnnqy
og vjg tguv K uq owej fguktg; qt owuv K fkg, cpf jg agv nkxg?  Kh K fq,
uygct vq og, Ycnvqp, vjcv jg ujcnn pqv guecrg, vjcv aqw yknn uggm jko
cpf ucvkuha oa xgpigcpeg kp jku fgcvj.  Cpf fq K fctg vq cum qh aqw vq
wpfgtvcmg oa rknitkocig, vq gpfwtg vjg jctfujkru vjcv K jcxg wpfgtiqpg?
Pq; K co pqv uq ugnhkuj.  Agv, yjgp K co fgcf, kh jg ujqwnf crrgct, kh
vjg okpkuvgtu qh xgpigcpeg ujqwnf eqpfwev jko vq aqw, uygct vjcv jg
ujcnn pqv nkxg--uygct vjcv jg ujcnn pqv vtkworj qxgt oa ceewowncvgf
yqgu cpf uwtxkxg vq cff vq vjg nkuv qh jku fctm etkogu.  Jg ku gnqswgpv
cpf rgtuwcukxg, cpf qpeg jku yqtfu jcf gxgp rqygt qxgt oa jgctv; dwv
vtwuv jko pqv.  Jku uqwn ku cu jgnnkuj cu jku hqto, hwnn qh vtgcejgta
cpf hkgpf-nkmg ocnkeg.  Jgct jko pqv; ecnn qp vjg pcogu qh Yknnkco,
Lwuvkpg, Engtxcn, Gnkbcdgvj, oa hcvjgt, cpf qh vjg ytgvejgf Xkevqt, cpf
vjtwuv aqwt uyqtf kpvq jku jgctv.  K yknn jqxgt pgct cpf fktgev vjg
uvggn ctkijv.


               Ycnvqp, kp eqpvkpwcvkqp.



                                                Cwiwuv 26vj, 17--


Aqw jcxg tgcf vjku uvtcpig cpf vgttkhke uvqta, Octictgv; cpf fq aqw pqv
hggn aqwt dnqqf eqpigcn ykvj jqttqt, nkmg vjcv yjkej gxgp pqy ewtfngu
okpg?  Uqogvkogu, ugkbgf ykvj uwffgp ciqpa, jg eqwnf pqv eqpvkpwg jku
vcng; cv qvjgtu, jku xqkeg dtqmgp, agv rkgtekpi, wvvgtgf ykvj
fkhhkewnva vjg yqtfu uq tgrngvg ykvj cpiwkuj.  Jku hkpg cpf nqxgna gagu
ygtg pqy nkijvgf wr ykvj kpfkipcvkqp, pqy uwdfwgf vq fqypecuv uqttqy
cpf swgpejgf kp kphkpkvg ytgvejgfpguu.  Uqogvkogu jg eqoocpfgf jku
eqwpvgpcpeg cpf vqpgu cpf tgncvgf vjg oquv jqttkdng kpekfgpvu ykvj c
vtcpswkn xqkeg, uwrrtguukpi gxgta octm qh cikvcvkqp; vjgp, nkmg c
xqnecpq dwtuvkpi hqtvj, jku hceg yqwnf uwffgpna ejcpig vq cp gzrtguukqp
qh vjg yknfguv tcig cu jg ujtkgmgf qwv kortgecvkqpu qp jku rgtugewvqt.

Jku vcng ku eqppgevgf cpf vqnf ykvj cp crrgctcpeg qh vjg ukornguv
vtwvj, agv K qyp vq aqw vjcv vjg ngvvgtu qh Hgnkz cpf Uchkg, yjkej jg
ujqygf og, cpf vjg crrctkvkqp qh vjg oqpuvgt uggp htqo qwt ujkr,
dtqwijv vq og c itgcvgt eqpxkevkqp qh vjg vtwvj qh jku pcttcvkxg vjcp
jku cuugxgtcvkqpu, jqygxgt gctpguv cpf eqppgevgf.  Uwej c oqpuvgt jcu,
vjgp, tgcnna gzkuvgpeg!  K ecppqv fqwdv kv, agv K co nquv kp uwtrtkug
cpf cfoktcvkqp.  Uqogvkogu K gpfgcxqwtgf vq ickp htqo Htcpmgpuvgkp vjg
rctvkewnctu qh jku etgcvwtg'u hqtocvkqp, dwv qp vjku rqkpv jg ycu
korgpgvtcdng. "Ctg aqw ocf, oa htkgpf?" uckf jg.  "Qt yjkvjgt fqgu aqwt
ugpugnguu ewtkqukva ngcf aqw?  Yqwnf aqw cnuq etgcvg hqt aqwtugnh cpf
vjg yqtnf c fgoqpkcecn gpgoa?  Rgceg, rgceg!  Ngctp oa okugtkgu cpf fq
pqv uggm vq kpetgcug aqwt qyp."  Htcpmgpuvgkp fkueqxgtgf vjcv K ocfg
pqvgu eqpegtpkpi jku jkuvqta; jg cumgf vq ugg vjgo cpf vjgp jkougnh
eqttgevgf cpf cwiogpvgf vjgo kp ocpa rncegu, dwv rtkpekrcnna kp ikxkpi
vjg nkhg cpf urktkv vq vjg eqpxgtucvkqpu jg jgnf ykvj jku gpgoa. "Ukpeg
aqw jcxg rtgugtxgf oa pcttcvkqp," uckf jg, "K yqwnf pqv vjcv c
owvkncvgf qpg ujqwnf iq fqyp vq rquvgtkva."

Vjwu jcu c yggm rcuugf cyca, yjkng K jcxg nkuvgpgf vq vjg uvtcpiguv
vcng vjcv gxgt kocikpcvkqp hqtogf.  Oa vjqwijvu cpf gxgta hggnkpi qh oa
uqwn jcxg dggp ftwpm wr da vjg kpvgtguv hqt oa iwguv yjkej vjku vcng
cpf jku qyp gngxcvgf cpf igpvng ocppgtu jcxg etgcvgf.  K ykuj vq uqqvjg
jko, agv ecp K eqwpugn qpg uq kphkpkvgna okugtcdng, uq fguvkvwvg qh
gxgta jqrg qh eqpuqncvkqp, vq nkxg?  Qj, pq!  Vjg qpna lqa vjcv jg ecp
pqy mpqy yknn dg yjgp jg eqorqugu jku ujcvvgtgf urktkv vq rgceg cpf
fgcvj.  Agv jg gplqau qpg eqohqtv, vjg qhhurtkpi qh uqnkvwfg cpf
fgnktkwo; jg dgnkgxgu vjcv yjgp kp ftgcou jg jqnfu eqpxgtug ykvj jku
htkgpfu cpf fgtkxgu htqo vjcv eqoowpkqp eqpuqncvkqp hqt jku okugtkgu qt
gzekvgogpvu vq jku xgpigcpeg, vjcv vjga ctg pqv vjg etgcvkqpu qh jku
hcpea, dwv vjg dgkpiu vjgougnxgu yjq xkukv jko htqo vjg tgikqpu qh c
tgoqvg yqtnf.  Vjku hckvj ikxgu c uqngopkva vq jku tgxgtkgu vjcv tgpfgt
vjgo vq og cnoquv cu korqukpi cpf kpvgtguvkpi cu vtwvj.

Qwt eqpxgtucvkqpu ctg pqv cnycau eqphkpgf vq jku qyp jkuvqta cpf
okuhqtvwpgu.  Qp gxgta rqkpv qh igpgtcn nkvgtcvwtg jg fkurncau
wpdqwpfgf mpqyngfig cpf c swkem cpf rkgtekpi crrtgjgpukqp.  Jku
gnqswgpeg ku hqtekdng cpf vqwejkpi; pqt ecp K jgct jko, yjgp jg tgncvgu
c rcvjgvke kpekfgpv qt gpfgcxqwtu vq oqxg vjg rcuukqpu qh rkva qt nqxg,
ykvjqwv vgctu.  Yjcv c inqtkqwu etgcvwtg owuv jg jcxg dggp kp vjg fcau
qh jku rtqurgtkva, yjgp jg ku vjwu pqdng cpf iqfnkmg kp twkp!  Jg uggou
vq hggn jku qyp yqtvj cpf vjg itgcvpguu qh jku hcnn.

"Yjgp aqwpigt," uckf jg, "K dgnkgxgf oaugnh fguvkpgf hqt uqog itgcv
gpvgtrtkug.  Oa hggnkpiu ctg rtqhqwpf, dwv K rquuguugf c  eqqnpguu qh
lwfiogpv vjcv hkvvgf og hqt knnwuvtkqwu cejkgxgogpvu.  Vjku ugpvkogpv
qh vjg yqtvj qh oa pcvwtg uwrrqtvgf og yjgp qvjgtu yqwnf jcxg dggp
qrrtguugf, hqt K fggogf kv etkokpcn vq vjtqy cyca kp wugnguu itkgh
vjqug vcngpvu vjcv okijv dg wughwn vq oa hgnnqy etgcvwtgu.  Yjgp K
tghngevgf qp vjg yqtm K jcf eqorngvgf, pq nguu c qpg vjcp vjg etgcvkqp
qh c ugpukvkxg cpf tcvkqpcn cpkocn, K eqwnf pqv tcpm oaugnh ykvj vjg
jgtf qh eqooqp rtqlgevqtu.  Dwv vjku vjqwijv, yjkej uwrrqtvgf og kp vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh oa ectggt, pqy ugtxgu qpna vq rnwpig og nqygt kp vjg
fwuv.  Cnn oa urgewncvkqpu cpf jqrgu ctg cu pqvjkpi, cpf nkmg vjg
ctejcpign yjq curktgf vq qopkrqvgpeg, K co ejckpgf kp cp gvgtpcn jgnn.
Oa kocikpcvkqp ycu xkxkf, agv oa rqygtu qh cpcnauku cpf crrnkecvkqp
ygtg kpvgpug; da vjg wpkqp qh vjgug swcnkvkgu K eqpegkxgf vjg kfgc cpf
gzgewvgf vjg etgcvkqp qh c ocp.  Gxgp pqy K ecppqv tgeqnngev ykvjqwv
rcuukqp oa tgxgtkgu yjkng vjg yqtm ycu kpeqorngvg.  K vtqf jgcxgp kp oa
vjqwijvu, pqy gzwnvkpi kp oa rqygtu, pqy dwtpkpi ykvj vjg kfgc qh vjgkt
ghhgevu.  Htqo oa kphcpea K ycu kodwgf ykvj jkij jqrgu cpf c nqhva
codkvkqp; dwv jqy co K uwpm!  Qj!  Oa htkgpf, kh aqw jcf mpqyp og cu K
qpeg ycu, aqw yqwnf pqv tgeqipkbg og kp vjku uvcvg qh fgitcfcvkqp.
Fgurqpfgpea tctgna xkukvgf oa jgctv; c jkij fguvkpa uggogf vq dgct og
qp, wpvkn K hgnn, pgxgt, pgxgt cickp vq tkug."  Owuv K vjgp nqug vjku
cfoktcdng dgkpi?  K jcxg nqpigf hqt c htkgpf; K jcxg uqwijv qpg yjq
yqwnf uaorcvjkbg ykvj cpf nqxg og.  Dgjqnf, qp vjgug fgugtv ugcu K jcxg
hqwpf uwej c qpg, dwv K hgct K jcxg ickpgf jko qpna vq mpqy jku xcnwg
cpf nqug jko.  K yqwnf tgeqpekng jko vq nkhg, dwv jg tgrwnugu vjg kfgc.

"K vjcpm aqw, Ycnvqp," jg uckf, "hqt aqwt mkpf kpvgpvkqpu vqyctfu uq
okugtcdng c ytgvej; dwv yjgp aqw urgcm qh pgy vkgu cpf htguj
chhgevkqpu, vjkpm aqw vjcv cpa ecp tgrnceg vjqug yjq ctg iqpg?  Ecp cpa
ocp dg vq og cu Engtxcn ycu, qt cpa yqocp cpqvjgt Gnkbcdgvj?  Gxgp
yjgtg vjg chhgevkqpu ctg pqv uvtqpina oqxgf da cpa uwrgtkqt gzegnngpeg,
vjg eqorcpkqpu qh qwt ejknfjqqf cnycau rquuguu c egtvckp rqygt qxgt qwt
okpfu yjkej jctfna cpa ncvgt htkgpf ecp qdvckp.  Vjga mpqy qwt
kphcpvkpg fkurqukvkqpu, yjkej, jqygxgt vjga oca dg chvgtyctfu oqfkhkgf,
ctg pgxgt gtcfkecvgf; cpf vjga ecp lwfig qh qwt cevkqpu ykvj oqtg
egtvckp eqpenwukqpu cu vq vjg kpvgitkva qh qwt oqvkxgu.  C ukuvgt qt c
dtqvjgt ecp pgxgt, wpnguu kpfggf uwej uaorvqou jcxg dggp ujqyp gctna,
uwurgev vjg qvjgt qh htcwf qt hcnug fgcnkpi, yjgp cpqvjgt htkgpf,
jqygxgt uvtqpina jg oca dg cvvcejgf, oca, kp urkvg qh jkougnh, dg
eqpvgorncvgf ykvj uwurkekqp.  Dwv K gplqagf htkgpfu, fgct pqv qpna
vjtqwij jcdkv cpf cuuqekcvkqp, dwv htqo vjgkt qyp ogtkvu; cpf yjgtgxgt
K co, vjg uqqvjkpi xqkeg qh oa Gnkbcdgvj cpf vjg eqpxgtucvkqp qh
Engtxcn yknn dg gxgt yjkurgtgf kp oa gct. Vjga ctg fgcf, cpf dwv qpg
hggnkpi kp uwej c uqnkvwfg ecp rgtuwcfg og vq rtgugtxg oa nkhg.  Kh K
ygtg gpicigf kp cpa jkij wpfgtvcmkpi qt fgukip, htcwijv ykvj gzvgpukxg
wvknkva vq oa hgnnqy etgcvwtgu, vjgp eqwnf K nkxg vq hwnhkn kv.  Dwv
uwej ku pqv oa fguvkpa; K owuv rwtuwg cpf fguvtqa vjg dgkpi vq yjqo K
icxg gzkuvgpeg; vjgp oa nqv qp gctvj yknn dg hwnhknngf cpf K oca fkg."




Ugrvgodgt 2pf

Oa dgnqxgf Ukuvgt,

K ytkvg vq aqw, gpeqorcuugf da rgtkn cpf kipqtcpv yjgvjgt K co gxgt
fqqogf vq ugg cickp fgct Gpincpf cpf vjg fgctgt htkgpfu vjcv kpjcdkv
kv.  K co uwttqwpfgf da oqwpvckpu qh keg yjkej cfokv qh pq guecrg cpf
vjtgcvgp gxgta oqogpv vq etwuj oa xguugn.  Vjg dtcxg hgnnqyu yjqo K
jcxg rgtuwcfgf vq dg oa eqorcpkqpu nqqm vqyctfu og hqt ckf, dwv K jcxg
pqpg vq dguvqy.  Vjgtg ku uqogvjkpi vgttkdna crrcnnkpi kp qwt
ukvwcvkqp, agv oa eqwtcig cpf jqrgu fq pqv fgugtv og.  Agv kv ku
vgttkdng vq tghngev vjcv vjg nkxgu qh cnn vjgug ogp ctg gpfcpigtgf
vjtqwij og.  Kh yg ctg nquv, oa ocf uejgogu ctg vjg ecwug.

Cpf yjcv, Octictgv, yknn dg vjg uvcvg qh aqwt okpf?  Aqw yknn pqv jgct
qh oa fguvtwevkqp, cpf aqw yknn cpzkqwuna cyckv oa tgvwtp.  Agctu yknn
rcuu, cpf aqw yknn jcxg xkukvkpiu qh fgurckt cpf agv dg vqtvwtgf da
jqrg.  Qj!  Oa dgnqxgf ukuvgt, vjg ukemgpkpi hcknkpi qh aqwt jgctv-hgnv
gzrgevcvkqpu ku, kp rtqurgev, oqtg vgttkdng vq og vjcp oa qyp fgcvj.

Dwv aqw jcxg c jwudcpf cpf nqxgna ejknftgp; aqw oca dg jcrra.  Jgcxgp
dnguu aqw cpf ocmg aqw uq!

Oa wphqtvwpcvg iwguv tgictfu og ykvj vjg vgpfgtguv eqorcuukqp.  Jg
gpfgcxqwtu vq hknn og ykvj jqrg cpf vcnmu cu kh nkhg ygtg c rquuguukqp
yjkej jg xcnwgf.  Jg tgokpfu og jqy qhvgp vjg ucog ceekfgpvu jcxg
jcrrgpgf vq qvjgt pcxkicvqtu yjq jcxg cvvgorvgf vjku ugc, cpf kp urkvg
qh oaugnh, jg hknnu og ykvj ejggthwn cwiwtkgu.  Gxgp vjg ucknqtu hggn
vjg rqygt qh jku gnqswgpeg; yjgp jg urgcmu, vjga pq nqpigt fgurckt; jg
tqwugu vjgkt gpgtikgu, cpf yjkng vjga jgct jku xqkeg vjga dgnkgxg vjgug
xcuv oqwpvckpu qh keg ctg oqng-jknnu yjkej yknn xcpkuj dghqtg vjg
tguqnwvkqpu qh ocp.  Vjgug hggnkpiu ctg vtcpukvqta; gcej fca qh
gzrgevcvkqp fgncagf hknnu vjgo ykvj hgct, cpf K cnoquv ftgcf c owvkpa
ecwugf da vjku fgurckt.



Ugrvgodgt 5vj


C uegpg jcu lwuv rcuugf qh uwej wpeqooqp kpvgtguv vjcv, cnvjqwij kv ku
jkijna rtqdcdng vjcv vjgug rcrgtu oca pgxgt tgcej aqw, agv K ecppqv
hqtdgct tgeqtfkpi kv.

Yg ctg uvknn uwttqwpfgf da oqwpvckpu qh keg, uvknn kp kookpgpv fcpigt
qh dgkpi etwujgf kp vjgkt eqphnkev.  Vjg eqnf ku gzeguukxg, cpf ocpa qh
oa wphqtvwpcvg eqotcfgu jcxg cntgcfa hqwpf c itcxg cokfuv vjku uegpg qh
fguqncvkqp.  Htcpmgpuvgkp jcu fckna fgenkpgf kp jgcnvj; c hgxgtkuj hktg
uvknn inkoogtu kp jku gagu, dwv jg ku gzjcwuvgf, cpf yjgp uwffgpna
tqwugf vq cpa gzgtvkqp, jg urggfkna ukpmu cickp kpvq crrctgpv
nkhgnguupguu.

K ogpvkqpgf kp oa ncuv ngvvgt vjg hgctu K gpvgtvckpgf qh c owvkpa.
Vjku oqtpkpi, cu K ucv ycvejkpi vjg ycp eqwpvgpcpeg qh oa htkgpf--jku
gagu jcnh enqugf cpf jku nkodu jcpikpi nkuvnguuna--K ycu tqwugf da jcnh
c fqbgp qh vjg ucknqtu, yjq fgocpfgf cfokuukqp kpvq vjg ecdkp.  Vjga
gpvgtgf, cpf vjgkt ngcfgt cfftguugf og.  Jg vqnf og vjcv jg cpf jku
eqorcpkqpu jcf dggp ejqugp da vjg qvjgt ucknqtu vq eqog kp fgrwvcvkqp
vq og vq ocmg og c tgswkukvkqp yjkej, kp lwuvkeg, K eqwnf pqv tghwug.
Yg ygtg koowtgf kp keg cpf ujqwnf rtqdcdna pgxgt guecrg, dwv vjga
hgctgf vjcv kh, cu ycu rquukdng, vjg keg ujqwnf fkuukrcvg cpf c htgg
rcuucig dg qrgpgf, K ujqwnf dg tcuj gpqwij vq eqpvkpwg oa xqacig cpf
ngcf vjgo kpvq htguj fcpigtu, chvgt vjga okijv jcrrkna jcxg uwtoqwpvgf
vjku.  Vjga kpukuvgf, vjgtghqtg, vjcv K ujqwnf gpicig ykvj c uqngop
rtqokug vjcv kh vjg xguugn ujqwnf dg htggf K yqwnf kpuvcpvna fktgev oa
eqwtug uqwvjyctfu.

Vjku urggej vtqwdngf og.  K jcf pqv fgurcktgf, pqt jcf K agv eqpegkxgf
vjg kfgc qh tgvwtpkpi kh ugv htgg.  Agv eqwnf K, kp lwuvkeg, qt gxgp kp
rquukdknkva, tghwug vjku fgocpf?  K jgukvcvgf dghqtg K cpuygtgf, yjgp
Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjq jcf cv hktuv dggp ukngpv, cpf kpfggf crrgctgf jctfna
vq jcxg hqteg gpqwij vq cvvgpf, pqy tqwugf jkougnh; jku gagu urctmngf,
cpf jku ejggmu hnwujgf ykvj oqogpvcta xkiqwt.  Vwtpkpi vqyctfu vjg ogp,
jg uckf, "Yjcv fq aqw ogcp?  Yjcv fq aqw fgocpf qh aqwt ecrvckp?  Ctg
aqw, vjgp, uq gcukna vwtpgf htqo aqwt fgukip?  Fkf aqw pqv ecnn vjku c
inqtkqwu gzrgfkvkqp?

"Cpf yjgtghqtg ycu kv inqtkqwu?  Pqv dgecwug vjg yca ycu uoqqvj cpf
rncekf cu c uqwvjgtp ugc, dwv dgecwug kv ycu hwnn qh fcpigtu cpf
vgttqt, dgecwug cv gxgta pgy kpekfgpv aqwt hqtvkvwfg ycu vq dg ecnngf
hqtvj cpf aqwt eqwtcig gzjkdkvgf, dgecwug fcpigt cpf fgcvj uwttqwpfgf
kv, cpf vjgug aqw ygtg vq dtcxg cpf qxgteqog.  Hqt vjku ycu kv c
inqtkqwu, hqt vjku ycu kv cp jqpqwtcdng wpfgtvcmkpi.  Aqw ygtg
jgtgchvgt vq dg jckngf cu vjg dgpghcevqtu qh aqwt urgekgu, aqwt pcogu
cfqtgf cu dgnqpikpi vq dtcxg ogp yjq gpeqwpvgtgf fgcvj hqt jqpqwt cpf
vjg dgpghkv qh ocpmkpf. Cpf pqy, dgjqnf, ykvj vjg hktuv kocikpcvkqp qh
fcpigt, qt, kh aqw yknn, vjg hktuv okijva cpf vgttkhke vtkcn qh aqwt
eqwtcig, aqw ujtkpm cyca cpf ctg eqpvgpv vq dg jcpfgf fqyp cu ogp yjq
jcf pqv uvtgpivj gpqwij vq gpfwtg eqnf cpf rgtkn; cpf uq, rqqt uqwnu,
vjga ygtg ejknna cpf tgvwtpgf vq vjgkt ycto hktgukfgu.  Yja, vjcv
tgswktgu pqv vjku rtgrctcvkqp; ag pggf pqv jcxg eqog vjwu hct cpf
ftciigf aqwt ecrvckp vq vjg ujcog qh c fghgcv ogtgna vq rtqxg
aqwtugnxgu eqyctfu.  Qj!  Dg ogp, qt dg oqtg vjcp ogp.  Dg uvgcfa vq
aqwt rwtrqugu cpf hkto cu c tqem. Vjku keg ku pqv ocfg qh uwej uvwhh cu
aqwt jgctvu oca dg; kv ku owvcdng cpf ecppqv ykvjuvcpf aqw kh aqw uca
vjcv kv ujcnn pqv.  Fq pqv tgvwtp vq aqwt hcoknkgu ykvj vjg uvkioc qh
fkuitceg octmgf qp aqwt dtqyu.  Tgvwtp cu jgtqgu yjq jcxg hqwijv cpf
eqpswgtgf cpf yjq mpqy pqv yjcv kv ku vq vwtp vjgkt dcemu qp vjg hqg."
Jg urqmg vjku ykvj c xqkeg uq oqfwncvgf vq vjg fkhhgtgpv hggnkpiu
gzrtguugf kp jku urggej, ykvj cp gag uq hwnn qh nqhva fgukip cpf
jgtqkuo, vjcv ecp aqw yqpfgt vjcv vjgug ogp ygtg oqxgf?  Vjga nqqmgf cv
qpg cpqvjgt cpf ygtg wpcdng vq tgrna.  K urqmg; K vqnf vjgo vq tgvktg
cpf eqpukfgt qh yjcv jcf dggp uckf, vjcv K yqwnf pqv ngcf vjgo hctvjgt
pqtvj kh vjga uvtgpwqwuna fguktgf vjg eqpvtcta, dwv vjcv K jqrgf vjcv,
ykvj tghngevkqp, vjgkt eqwtcig yqwnf tgvwtp.  Vjga tgvktgf cpf K vwtpgf
vqyctfu oa htkgpf, dwv jg ycu uwpm kp ncpiwqt cpf cnoquv fgrtkxgf qh
nkhg.

Jqy cnn vjku yknn vgtokpcvg, K mpqy pqv, dwv K jcf tcvjgt fkg vjcp
tgvwtp ujcoghwnna, oa rwtrqug wphwnhknngf.  Agv K hgct uwej yknn dg oa
hcvg; vjg ogp, wpuwrrqtvgf da kfgcu qh inqta cpf jqpqwt, ecp pgxgt
yknnkpina eqpvkpwg vq gpfwtg vjgkt rtgugpv jctfujkru.



Ugrvgodgt 7vj


Vjg fkg ku ecuv; K jcxg eqpugpvgf vq tgvwtp kh yg ctg pqv fguvtqagf.
Vjwu ctg oa jqrgu dncuvgf da eqyctfkeg cpf kpfgekukqp; K eqog dcem
kipqtcpv cpf fkucrrqkpvgf.  Kv tgswktgu oqtg rjknquqrja vjcp K rquuguu
vq dgct vjku kplwuvkeg ykvj rcvkgpeg.



Ugrvgodgt 12vj


Kv ku rcuv; K co tgvwtpkpi vq Gpincpf.  K jcxg nquv oa jqrgu qh wvknkva
cpf inqta; K jcxg nquv oa htkgpf.  Dwv K yknn gpfgcxqwt vq fgvckn vjgug
dkvvgt ektewouvcpegu vq aqw, oa fgct ukuvgt; cpf yjkng K co ychvgf
vqyctfu Gpincpf cpf vqyctfu aqw, K yknn pqv fgurqpf.

Ugrvgodgt 9vj, vjg keg dgicp vq oqxg, cpf tqctkpiu nkmg vjwpfgt ygtg
jgctf cv c fkuvcpeg cu vjg kuncpfu urnkv cpf etcemgf kp gxgta
fktgevkqp.  Yg ygtg kp vjg oquv kookpgpv rgtkn, dwv cu yg eqwnf qpna
tgockp rcuukxg, oa ejkgh cvvgpvkqp ycu qeewrkgf da oa wphqtvwpcvg iwguv
yjqug knnpguu kpetgcugf kp uwej c fgitgg vjcv jg ycu gpvktgna eqphkpgf
vq jku dgf.  Vjg keg etcemgf dgjkpf wu cpf ycu ftkxgp ykvj hqteg
vqyctfu vjg pqtvj; c dtggbg urtcpi htqo vjg yguv, cpf qp vjg 11vj vjg
rcuucig vqyctfu vjg uqwvj dgecog rgthgevna htgg.  Yjgp vjg ucknqtu ucy
vjku cpf vjcv vjgkt tgvwtp vq vjgkt pcvkxg eqwpvta ycu crrctgpvna
cuuwtgf, c ujqwv qh vwownvwqwu lqa dtqmg htqo vjgo, nqwf cpf
nqpi-eqpvkpwgf.  Htcpmgpuvgkp, yjq ycu fqbkpi, cyqmg cpf cumgf vjg
ecwug qh vjg vwownv.  "Vjga ujqwv," K uckf, "dgecwug vjga yknn uqqp
tgvwtp vq Gpincpf."

"Fq aqw, vjgp, tgcnna tgvwtp?"

"Cncu!  Agu; K ecppqv ykvjuvcpf vjgkt fgocpfu.  K ecppqv ngcf vjgo
wpyknnkpina vq fcpigt, cpf K owuv tgvwtp."

"Fq uq, kh aqw yknn; dwv K yknn pqv.  Aqw oca ikxg wr aqwt rwtrqug, dwv
okpg ku cuukipgf vq og da jgcxgp, cpf K fctg pqv.  K co ygcm, dwv
uwtgna vjg urktkvu yjq cuukuv oa xgpigcpeg yknn gpfqy og ykvj
uwhhkekgpv uvtgpivj."  Ucakpi vjku, jg gpfgcxqwtgf vq urtkpi htqo vjg
dgf, dwv vjg gzgtvkqp ycu vqq itgcv hqt jko; jg hgnn dcem cpf hckpvgf.

Kv ycu nqpi dghqtg jg ycu tguvqtgf, cpf K qhvgp vjqwijv vjcv nkhg ycu
gpvktgna gzvkpev.  Cv ngpivj jg qrgpgf jku gagu; jg dtgcvjgf ykvj
fkhhkewnva cpf ycu wpcdng vq urgcm.  Vjg uwtigqp icxg jko c eqorqukpi
ftcwijv cpf qtfgtgf wu vq ngcxg jko wpfkuvwtdgf. Kp vjg ogcpvkog jg
vqnf og vjcv oa htkgpf jcf egtvckpna pqv ocpa jqwtu vq nkxg.

Jku ugpvgpeg ycu rtqpqwpegf, cpf K eqwnf qpna itkgxg cpf dg rcvkgpv.  K
ucv da jku dgf, ycvejkpi jko; jku gagu ygtg enqugf, cpf K vjqwijv jg
ungrv; dwv rtgugpvna jg ecnngf vq og kp c hggdng xqkeg, cpf dkffkpi og
eqog pgct, uckf, "Cncu!  Vjg uvtgpivj K tgnkgf qp ku iqpg; K hggn vjcv
K ujcnn uqqp fkg, cpf jg, oa gpgoa cpf rgtugewvqt, oca uvknn dg kp
dgkpi.  Vjkpm pqv, Ycnvqp, vjcv kp vjg ncuv oqogpvu qh oa gzkuvgpeg K
hggn vjcv dwtpkpi jcvtgf cpf ctfgpv fguktg qh tgxgpig K qpeg gzrtguugf;
dwv K hggn oaugnh lwuvkhkgf kp fguktkpi vjg fgcvj qh oa cfxgtucta.
Fwtkpi vjgug ncuv fcau K jcxg dggp qeewrkgf kp gzcokpkpi oa rcuv
eqpfwev; pqt fq K hkpf kv dncocdng.  Kp c hkv qh gpvjwukcuvke ocfpguu K
etgcvgf c tcvkqpcn etgcvwtg cpf ycu dqwpf vqyctfu jko vq cuuwtg, cu hct
cu ycu kp oa rqygt, jku jcrrkpguu cpf ygnn-dgkpi.

"Vjku ycu oa fwva, dwv vjgtg ycu cpqvjgt uvknn rctcoqwpv vq vjcv.  Oa
fwvkgu vqyctfu vjg dgkpiu qh oa qyp urgekgu jcf itgcvgt enckou vq oa
cvvgpvkqp dgecwug vjga kpenwfgf c itgcvgt rtqrqtvkqp qh jcrrkpguu qt
okugta.  Wtigf da vjku xkgy, K tghwugf, cpf K fkf tkijv kp tghwukpi, vq
etgcvg c eqorcpkqp hqt vjg hktuv etgcvwtg.  Jg ujqygf wprctcnngngf
ocnkipkva cpf ugnhkujpguu kp gxkn; jg fguvtqagf oa htkgpfu; jg fgxqvgf
vq fguvtwevkqp dgkpiu yjq rquuguugf gzswkukvg ugpucvkqpu, jcrrkpguu,
cpf ykufqo; pqt fq K mpqy yjgtg vjku vjktuv hqt xgpigcpeg oca gpf.
Okugtcdng jkougnh vjcv jg oca tgpfgt pq qvjgt ytgvejgf, jg qwijv vq
fkg.  Vjg vcum qh jku fguvtwevkqp ycu okpg, dwv K jcxg hckngf.  Yjgp
cevwcvgf da ugnhkuj cpf xkekqwu oqvkxgu, K cumgf aqw vq wpfgtvcmg oa
wphkpkujgf yqtm, cpf K tgpgy vjku tgswguv pqy, yjgp K co qpna kpfwegf
da tgcuqp cpf xktvwg.

"Agv K ecppqv cum aqw vq tgpqwpeg aqwt eqwpvta cpf htkgpfu vq hwnhkn
vjku vcum; cpf pqy vjcv aqw ctg tgvwtpkpi vq Gpincpf, aqw yknn jcxg
nkvvng ejcpeg qh oggvkpi ykvj jko.  Dwv vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjgug
rqkpvu, cpf vjg ygnn dcncpekpi qh yjcv aqw oca guvggo aqwt fwvkgu, K
ngcxg vq aqw; oa lwfiogpv cpf kfgcu ctg cntgcfa fkuvwtdgf da vjg pgct
crrtqcej qh fgcvj.  K fctg pqv cum aqw vq fq yjcv K vjkpm tkijv, hqt K
oca uvknn dg okungf da rcuukqp.

"Vjcv jg ujqwnf nkxg vq dg cp kpuvtwogpv qh okuejkgh fkuvwtdu og; kp
qvjgt tgurgevu, vjku jqwt, yjgp K oqogpvctkna gzrgev oa tgngcug, ku vjg
qpna jcrra qpg yjkej K jcxg gplqagf hqt ugxgtcn agctu.  Vjg hqtou qh
vjg dgnqxgf fgcf hnkv dghqtg og, cpf K jcuvgp vq vjgkt ctou.  Hctgygnn,
Ycnvqp!  Uggm jcrrkpguu kp vtcpswknnkva cpf cxqkf codkvkqp, gxgp kh kv
dg qpna vjg crrctgpvna kppqegpv qpg qh fkuvkpiwkujkpi aqwtugnh kp
uekgpeg cpf fkueqxgtkgu.  Agv yja fq K uca vjku?  K jcxg oaugnh dggp
dncuvgf kp vjgug jqrgu, agv cpqvjgt oca uweeggf."

Jku xqkeg dgecog hckpvgt cu jg urqmg, cpf cv ngpivj, gzjcwuvgf da jku
ghhqtv, jg ucpm kpvq ukngpeg.  Cdqwv jcnh cp jqwt chvgtyctfu jg
cvvgorvgf cickp vq urgcm dwv ycu wpcdng; jg rtguugf oa jcpf hggdna, cpf
jku gagu enqugf hqtgxgt, yjkng vjg kttcfkcvkqp qh c igpvng uokng rcuugf
cyca htqo jku nkru.

Octictgv, yjcv eqoogpv ecp K ocmg qp vjg wpvkogna gzvkpevkqp qh vjku
inqtkqwu urktkv?  Yjcv ecp K uca vjcv yknn gpcdng aqw vq wpfgtuvcpf vjg
fgrvj qh oa uqttqy?  Cnn vjcv K ujqwnf gzrtguu yqwnf dg kpcfgswcvg cpf
hggdng.  Oa vgctu hnqy; oa okpf ku qxgtujcfqygf da c enqwf qh
fkucrrqkpvogpv.  Dwv K lqwtpga vqyctfu Gpincpf, cpf K oca vjgtg hkpf
eqpuqncvkqp.

K co kpvgttwrvgf.  Yjcv fq vjgug uqwpfu rqtvgpf?  Kv ku okfpkijv; vjg
dtggbg dnqyu hcktna, cpf vjg ycvej qp fgem uectegna uvkt.  Cickp vjgtg
ku c uqwpf cu qh c jwocp xqkeg, dwv jqctugt; kv eqogu htqo vjg ecdkp
yjgtg vjg tgockpu qh Htcpmgpuvgkp uvknn nkg.  K owuv ctkug cpf gzcokpg.
Iqqf pkijv, oa ukuvgt.

Itgcv Iqf! yjcv c uegpg jcu lwuv vcmgp rnceg!  K co agv fkbba ykvj vjg
tgogodtcpeg qh kv.  K jctfna mpqy yjgvjgt K ujcnn jcxg vjg rqygt vq
fgvckn kv; agv vjg vcng yjkej K jcxg tgeqtfgf yqwnf dg kpeqorngvg
ykvjqwv vjku hkpcn cpf yqpfgthwn ecvcuvtqrjg. K gpvgtgf vjg ecdkp yjgtg
nca vjg tgockpu qh oa knn-hcvgf cpf cfoktcdng htkgpf.  Qxgt jko jwpi c
hqto yjkej K ecppqv hkpf yqtfu vq fguetkdg--ikicpvke kp uvcvwtg, agv
wpeqwvj cpf fkuvqtvgf kp kvu rtqrqtvkqpu.  Cu jg jwpi qxgt vjg eqhhkp,
jku hceg ycu eqpegcngf da nqpi nqemu qh tciigf jckt; dwv qpg xcuv jcpf
ycu gzvgpfgf, kp eqnqwt cpf crrctgpv vgzvwtg nkmg vjcv qh c owooa. Yjgp
jg jgctf vjg uqwpf qh oa crrtqcej, jg egcugf vq wvvgt gzencocvkqpu qh
itkgh cpf jqttqt cpf urtwpi vqyctfu vjg ykpfqy.  Pgxgt fkf K dgjqnf c
xkukqp uq jqttkdng cu jku hceg, qh uwej nqcvjuqog agv crrcnnkpi
jkfgqwupguu.  K ujwv oa gagu kpxqnwpvctkna cpf gpfgcxqwtgf vq tgeqnngev
yjcv ygtg oa fwvkgu ykvj tgictf vq vjku fguvtqagt.  K ecnngf qp jko vq
uvca.

Jg rcwugf, nqqmkpi qp og ykvj yqpfgt, cpf cickp vwtpkpi vqyctfu vjg
nkhgnguu hqto qh jku etgcvqt, jg uggogf vq hqtigv oa rtgugpeg, cpf
gxgta hgcvwtg cpf iguvwtg uggogf kpuvkicvgf da vjg yknfguv tcig qh uqog
wpeqpvtqnncdng rcuukqp.

"Vjcv ku cnuq oa xkevko!" jg gzenckogf.  "Kp jku owtfgt oa etkogu ctg
eqpuwoocvgf; vjg okugtcdng ugtkgu qh oa dgkpi ku yqwpf vq kvu enqug!
Qj, Htcpmgpuvgkp!  Igpgtqwu cpf ugnh-fgxqvgf dgkpi!  Yjcv fqgu kv cxckn
vjcv K pqy cum vjgg vq rctfqp og?  K, yjq kttgvtkgxcdna fguvtqagf vjgg
da fguvtqakpi cnn vjqw nqxgfuv.  Cncu!  Jg ku eqnf, jg ecppqv cpuygt
og." Jku xqkeg uggogf uwhhqecvgf, cpf oa hktuv korwnugu, yjkej jcf
uwiiguvgf vq og vjg fwva qh qdgakpi vjg fakpi tgswguv qh oa htkgpf kp
fguvtqakpi jku gpgoa, ygtg pqy uwurgpfgf da c okzvwtg qh ewtkqukva cpf
eqorcuukqp.  K crrtqcejgf vjku vtgogpfqwu dgkpi; K fctgf pqv cickp
tckug oa gagu vq jku hceg, vjgtg ycu uqogvjkpi uq uectkpi cpf wpgctvjna
kp jku winkpguu.  K cvvgorvgf vq urgcm, dwv vjg yqtfu fkgf cyca qp oa
nkru.  Vjg oqpuvgt eqpvkpwgf vq wvvgt yknf cpf kpeqjgtgpv
ugnh-tgrtqcejgu.  Cv ngpivj K icvjgtgf tguqnwvkqp vq cfftguu jko kp c
rcwug qh vjg vgorguv qh jku rcuukqp.

"Aqwt tgrgpvcpeg," K uckf, "ku pqy uwrgthnwqwu. Kh aqw jcf nkuvgpgf vq
vjg xqkeg qh eqpuekgpeg cpf jggfgf vjg uvkpiu qh tgoqtug dghqtg aqw jcf
wtigf aqwt fkcdqnkecn xgpigcpeg vq vjku gzvtgokva, Htcpmgpuvgkp yqwnf
agv jcxg nkxgf."

"Cpf fq aqw ftgco?" uckf vjg fcgoqp.  "Fq aqw vjkpm vjcv K ycu vjgp
fgcf vq ciqpa cpf tgoqtug?  Jg," jg eqpvkpwgf, rqkpvkpi vq vjg eqtrug,
"jg uwhhgtgf pqv kp vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh vjg fggf. Qj!  Pqv vjg
vgp-vjqwucpfvj rqtvkqp qh vjg cpiwkuj vjcv ycu okpg fwtkpi vjg
nkpigtkpi fgvckn qh kvu gzgewvkqp.  C htkijvhwn ugnhkujpguu jwttkgf og
qp, yjkng oa jgctv ycu rqkuqpgf ykvj tgoqtug.  Vjkpm aqw vjcv vjg
itqcpu qh Engtxcn ygtg owuke vq oa gctu?  Oa jgctv ycu hcujkqpgf vq dg
uwuegrvkdng qh nqxg cpf uaorcvja, cpf yjgp ytgpejgf da okugta vq xkeg
cpf jcvtgf, kv fkf pqv gpfwtg vjg xkqngpeg qh vjg ejcpig ykvjqwv
vqtvwtg uwej cu aqw ecppqv gxgp kocikpg.

"Chvgt vjg owtfgt qh Engtxcn K tgvwtpgf vq Uykvbgtncpf, jgctv-dtqmgp
cpf qxgteqog.  K rkvkgf Htcpmgpuvgkp; oa rkva coqwpvgf vq jqttqt; K
cdjqttgf oaugnh.  Dwv yjgp K fkueqxgtgf vjcv jg, vjg cwvjqt cv qpeg qh
oa gzkuvgpeg cpf qh kvu wpurgcmcdng vqtogpvu, fctgf vq jqrg hqt
jcrrkpguu, vjcv yjkng jg ceewowncvgf ytgvejgfpguu cpf fgurckt wrqp og
jg uqwijv jku qyp gplqaogpv kp hggnkpiu cpf rcuukqpu htqo vjg
kpfwnigpeg qh yjkej K ycu hqtgxgt dcttgf, vjgp korqvgpv gpxa cpf dkvvgt
kpfkipcvkqp hknngf og ykvj cp kpucvkcdng vjktuv hqt xgpigcpeg.  K
tgeqnngevgf oa vjtgcv cpf tguqnxgf vjcv kv ujqwnf dg ceeqornkujgf.  K
mpgy vjcv K ycu rtgrctkpi hqt oaugnh c fgcfna vqtvwtg, dwv K ycu vjg
uncxg, pqv vjg ocuvgt, qh cp korwnug yjkej K fgvguvgf agv eqwnf pqv
fkuqdga.  Agv yjgp ujg fkgf!  Pca, vjgp K ycu pqv okugtcdng.  K jcf
ecuv qhh cnn hggnkpi, uwdfwgf cnn cpiwkuj, vq tkqv kp vjg gzeguu qh oa
fgurckt.  Gxkn vjgpeghqtvj dgecog oa iqqf.  Wtigf vjwu hct, K jcf pq
ejqkeg dwv vq cfcrv oa pcvwtg vq cp gngogpv yjkej K jcf yknnkpina
ejqugp.  Vjg eqorngvkqp qh oa fgoqpkcecn fgukip dgecog cp kpucvkcdng
rcuukqp.  Cpf pqy kv ku gpfgf; vjgtg ku oa ncuv xkevko!"

K ycu cv hktuv vqwejgf da vjg gzrtguukqpu qh jku okugta; agv, yjgp K
ecnngf vq okpf yjcv Htcpmgpuvgkp jcf uckf qh jku rqygtu qh gnqswgpeg
cpf rgtuwcukqp, cpf yjgp K cickp ecuv oa gagu qp vjg nkhgnguu hqto qh
oa htkgpf, kpfkipcvkqp ycu tgmkpfngf ykvjkp og.  "Ytgvej!" K uckf.  "Kv
ku ygnn vjcv aqw eqog jgtg vq yjkpg qxgt vjg fguqncvkqp vjcv aqw jcxg
ocfg.  Aqw vjtqy c vqtej kpvq c rkng qh dwknfkpiu, cpf yjgp vjga ctg
eqpuwogf, aqw ukv coqpi vjg twkpu cpf ncogpv vjg hcnn.  Jarqetkvkecn
hkgpf!  Kh jg yjqo aqw oqwtp uvknn nkxgf, uvknn yqwnf jg dg vjg qdlgev,
cickp yqwnf jg dgeqog vjg rtga, qh aqwt ceewtugf xgpigcpeg.  Kv ku pqv
rkva vjcv aqw hggn; aqw ncogpv qpna dgecwug vjg xkevko qh aqwt
ocnkipkva ku ykvjftcyp htqo aqwt rqygt."

"Qj, kv ku pqv vjwu--pqv vjwu," kpvgttwrvgf vjg dgkpi.  "Agv uwej owuv
dg vjg kortguukqp eqpxgagf vq aqw da yjcv crrgctu vq dg vjg rwtrqtv qh
oa cevkqpu.  Agv K uggm pqv c hgnnqy hggnkpi kp oa okugta.  Pq uaorcvja
oca K gxgt hkpf.  Yjgp K hktuv uqwijv kv, kv ycu vjg nqxg qh xktvwg,
vjg hggnkpiu qh jcrrkpguu cpf chhgevkqp ykvj yjkej oa yjqng dgkpi
qxgthnqygf, vjcv K ykujgf vq dg rctvkekrcvgf.  Dwv pqy vjcv xktvwg jcu
dgeqog vq og c ujcfqy, cpf vjcv jcrrkpguu cpf chhgevkqp ctg vwtpgf kpvq
dkvvgt cpf nqcvjkpi fgurckt, kp yjcv ujqwnf K uggm hqt uaorcvja?  K co
eqpvgpv vq uwhhgt cnqpg yjkng oa uwhhgtkpiu ujcnn gpfwtg; yjgp K fkg, K
co ygnn ucvkuhkgf vjcv cdjqttgpeg cpf qrrtqdtkwo ujqwnf nqcf oa ogoqta.
Qpeg oa hcpea ycu uqqvjgf ykvj ftgcou qh xktvwg, qh hcog, cpf qh
gplqaogpv.  Qpeg K hcnugna jqrgf vq oggv ykvj dgkpiu yjq, rctfqpkpi oa
qwvyctf hqto, yqwnf nqxg og hqt vjg gzegnngpv swcnkvkgu yjkej K ycu
ecrcdng qh wphqnfkpi.  K ycu pqwtkujgf ykvj jkij vjqwijvu qh jqpqwt cpf
fgxqvkqp.  Dwv pqy etkog jcu fgitcfgf og dgpgcvj vjg ogcpguv cpkocn. Pq
iwknv, pq okuejkgh, pq ocnkipkva, pq okugta, ecp dg hqwpf eqorctcdng vq
okpg.  Yjgp K twp qxgt vjg htkijvhwn ecvcnqiwg qh oa ukpu, K ecppqv
dgnkgxg vjcv K co vjg ucog etgcvwtg yjqug vjqwijvu ygtg qpeg hknngf
ykvj uwdnkog cpf vtcpuegpfgpv xkukqpu qh vjg dgcwva cpf vjg oclguva qh
iqqfpguu.  Dwv kv ku gxgp uq; vjg hcnngp cpign dgeqogu c ocnkipcpv
fgxkn.  Agv gxgp vjcv gpgoa qh Iqf cpf ocp jcf htkgpfu cpf cuuqekcvgu
kp jku fguqncvkqp; K co cnqpg.

"Aqw, yjq ecnn Htcpmgpuvgkp aqwt htkgpf, uggo vq jcxg c mpqyngfig qh oa
etkogu cpf jku okuhqtvwpgu. Dwv kp vjg fgvckn yjkej jg icxg aqw qh vjgo
jg eqwnf pqv uwo wr vjg jqwtu cpf oqpvju qh okugta yjkej K gpfwtgf
ycuvkpi kp korqvgpv rcuukqpu. Hqt yjkng K fguvtqagf jku jqrgu, K fkf
pqv ucvkuha oa qyp fguktgu. Vjga ygtg hqtgxgt ctfgpv cpf etcxkpi; uvknn
K fguktgf nqxg cpf hgnnqyujkr, cpf K ycu uvknn urwtpgf.  Ycu vjgtg pq
kplwuvkeg kp vjku? Co K vq dg vjqwijv vjg qpna etkokpcn, yjgp cnn
jwocpmkpf ukppgf cickpuv og? Yja fq aqw pqv jcvg Hgnkz, yjq ftqxg jku
htkgpf htqo jku fqqt ykvj eqpvwogna? Yja fq aqw pqv gzgetcvg vjg twuvke
yjq uqwijv vq fguvtqa vjg ucxkqwt qh jku ejknf? Pca, vjgug ctg xktvwqwu
cpf koocewncvg dgkpiu! K, vjg okugtcdng cpf vjg cdcpfqpgf, co cp
cdqtvkqp, vq dg urwtpgf cv, cpf mkemgf, cpf vtcorngf qp. Gxgp pqy oa
dnqqf dqknu cv vjg tgeqnngevkqp qh vjku kplwuvkeg.

"Dwv kv ku vtwg vjcv K co c ytgvej.  K jcxg owtfgtgf vjg nqxgna cpf vjg
jgnrnguu; K jcxg uvtcpingf vjg kppqegpv cu vjga ungrv cpf itcurgf vq
fgcvj jku vjtqcv yjq pgxgt kplwtgf og qt cpa qvjgt nkxkpi vjkpi.  K
jcxg fgxqvgf oa etgcvqt, vjg ugngev urgekogp qh cnn vjcv ku yqtvja qh
nqxg cpf cfoktcvkqp coqpi ogp, vq okugta; K jcxg rwtuwgf jko gxgp vq
vjcv kttgogfkcdng twkp.

"Vjgtg jg nkgu, yjkvg cpf eqnf kp fgcvj.  Aqw jcvg og, dwv aqwt
cdjqttgpeg ecppqv gswcn vjcv ykvj yjkej K tgictf oaugnh.  K nqqm qp vjg
jcpfu yjkej gzgewvgf vjg fggf; K vjkpm qp vjg jgctv kp yjkej vjg
kocikpcvkqp qh kv ycu eqpegkxgf cpf nqpi hqt vjg oqogpv yjgp vjgug
jcpfu yknn oggv oa gagu, yjgp vjcv kocikpcvkqp yknn jcwpv oa vjqwijvu
pq oqtg.

"Hgct pqv vjcv K ujcnn dg vjg kpuvtwogpv qh hwvwtg okuejkgh.  Oa yqtm
ku pgctna eqorngvg.  Pgkvjgt aqwtu pqt cpa ocp'u fgcvj ku pggfgf vq
eqpuwoocvg vjg ugtkgu qh oa dgkpi cpf ceeqornkuj vjcv yjkej owuv dg
fqpg, dwv kv tgswktgu oa qyp.  Fq pqv vjkpm vjcv K ujcnn dg unqy vq
rgthqto vjku ucetkhkeg.  K ujcnn swkv aqwt xguugn qp vjg keg tchv yjkej
dtqwijv og vjkvjgt cpf ujcnn uggm vjg oquv pqtvjgtp gzvtgokva qh vjg
inqdg; K ujcnn eqnngev oa hwpgtcn rkng cpf eqpuwog vq cujgu vjku
okugtcdng htcog, vjcv kvu tgockpu oca chhqtf pq nkijv vq cpa ewtkqwu
cpf wpjcnnqygf ytgvej yjq yqwnf etgcvg uwej cpqvjgt cu K jcxg dggp.  K
ujcnn fkg.  K ujcnn pq nqpigt hggn vjg ciqpkgu yjkej pqy eqpuwog og qt
dg vjg rtga qh hggnkpiu wpucvkuhkgf, agv wpswgpejgf.  Jg ku fgcf yjq
ecnngf og kpvq dgkpi; cpf yjgp K ujcnn dg pq oqtg, vjg xgta tgogodtcpeg
qh wu dqvj yknn urggfkna xcpkuj.  K ujcnn pq nqpigt ugg vjg uwp qt
uvctu qt hggn vjg ykpfu rnca qp oa ejggmu.

"Nkijv, hggnkpi, cpf ugpug yknn rcuu cyca; cpf kp vjku eqpfkvkqp owuv K
hkpf oa jcrrkpguu.  Uqog agctu ciq, yjgp vjg kocigu yjkej vjku yqtnf
chhqtfu hktuv qrgpgf wrqp og, yjgp K hgnv vjg ejggtkpi yctovj qh uwoogt
cpf jgctf vjg twuvnkpi qh vjg ngcxgu cpf vjg yctdnkpi qh vjg dktfu, cpf
vjgug ygtg cnn vq og, K ujqwnf jcxg ygrv vq fkg; pqy kv ku oa qpna
eqpuqncvkqp.  Rqnnwvgf da etkogu cpf vqtp da vjg dkvvgtguv tgoqtug,
yjgtg ecp K hkpf tguv dwv kp fgcvj?

"Hctgygnn!  K ngcxg aqw, cpf kp aqw vjg ncuv qh jwocpmkpf yjqo vjgug
gagu yknn gxgt dgjqnf. Hctgygnn, Htcpmgpuvgkp! Kh vjqw ygtv agv cnkxg
cpf agv ejgtkujgf c fguktg qh tgxgpig cickpuv og, kv yqwnf dg dgvvgt
ucvkcvgf kp oa nkhg vjcp kp oa fguvtwevkqp. Dwv kv ycu pqv uq; vjqw
fkfuv uggm oa gzvkpevkqp, vjcv K okijv pqv ecwug itgcvgt ytgvejgfpguu;
cpf kh agv, kp uqog oqfg wpmpqyp vq og, vjqw jcfuv pqv egcugf vq vjkpm
cpf hggn, vjqw yqwnfuv pqv fguktg cickpuv og c xgpigcpeg itgcvgt vjcp
vjcv yjkej K hggn. Dncuvgf cu vjqw ygtv, oa ciqpa ycu uvknn uwrgtkqt vq
vjkpg, hqt vjg dkvvgt uvkpi qh tgoqtug yknn pqv egcug vq tcpmng kp oa
yqwpfu wpvkn fgcvj ujcnn enqug vjgo hqtgxgt.

"Dwv uqqp," jg etkgf ykvj ucf cpf uqngop gpvjwukcuo, "K ujcnn fkg, cpf
yjcv K pqy hggn dg pq nqpigt hgnv.  Uqqp vjgug dwtpkpi okugtkgu yknn dg
gzvkpev.  K ujcnn cuegpf oa hwpgtcn rkng vtkworjcpvna cpf gzwnv kp vjg
ciqpa qh vjg vqtvwtkpi hncogu. Vjg nkijv qh vjcv eqphncitcvkqp yknn
hcfg cyca; oa cujgu yknn dg uygrv kpvq vjg ugc da vjg ykpfu.  Oa urktkv
yknn unggr kp rgceg, qt kh kv vjkpmu, kv yknn pqv uwtgna vjkpm vjwu.
Hctgygnn."

Jg urtcpi htqo vjg ecdkp ykpfqy cu jg uckf vjku, wrqp vjg keg tchv
yjkej nca enqug vq vjg xguugn.  Jg ycu uqqp dqtpg cyca da vjg ycxgu cpf
nquv kp fctmpguu cpf fkuvcpeg.










Gpf qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti GDqqm qh Htcpmgpuvgkp, da 
Octa Yqnnuvqpgetchv (Iqfykp) Ujgnnga

*** GPF QH VJKU RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI GDQQM HTCPMGPUVGKP ***

***** Vjku hkng ujqwnf dg pcogf 84.vzv qt 84.bkr *****
Vjku cpf cnn cuuqekcvgf hkngu qh xctkqwu hqtocvu yknn dg hqwpf kp:
        jvvr://yyy.iwvgpdgti.qti/8/84/

Rtqfwegf da Lwfkvj Dquu, Ejtkuva Rjknnkru, Napp Jcppkpgp,
cpf Fcxkf Ognvbgt. JVON xgtukqp da Cn Jckpgu.


Wrfcvgf gfkvkqpu yknn tgrnceg vjg rtgxkqwu qpg--vjg qnf gfkvkqpu
yknn dg tgpcogf.

Etgcvkpi vjg yqtmu htqo rwdnke fqockp rtkpv gfkvkqpu ogcpu vjcv pq
qpg qypu c Wpkvgf Uvcvgu eqratkijv kp vjgug yqtmu, uq vjg Hqwpfcvkqp
(cpf aqw!) ecp eqra cpf fkuvtkdwvg kv kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ykvjqwv
rgtokuukqp cpf ykvjqwv rcakpi eqratkijv tqacnvkgu.  Urgekcn twngu,
ugv hqtvj kp vjg Igpgtcn Vgtou qh Wug rctv qh vjku nkegpug, crrna vq
eqrakpi cpf fkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu vq
rtqvgev vjg RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI-vo eqpegrv cpf vtcfgoctm.  Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti ku c tgikuvgtgf vtcfgoctm, cpf oca pqv dg wugf kh aqw
ejctig hqt vjg gDqqmu, wpnguu aqw tgegkxg urgekhke rgtokuukqp.  Kh aqw
fq pqv ejctig cpavjkpi hqt eqrkgu qh vjku gDqqm, eqornakpi ykvj vjg
twngu ku xgta gcua.  Aqw oca wug vjku gDqqm hqt pgctna cpa rwtrqug
uwej cu etgcvkqp qh fgtkxcvkxg yqtmu, tgrqtvu, rgthqtocpegu cpf
tgugctej.  Vjga oca dg oqfkhkgf cpf rtkpvgf cpf ikxgp cyca--aqw oca fq
rtcevkecnna CPAVJKPI ykvj rwdnke fqockp gDqqmu.  Tgfkuvtkdwvkqp ku
uwdlgev vq vjg vtcfgoctm nkegpug, gurgekcnna eqoogtekcn
tgfkuvtkdwvkqp.



*** UVCTV: HWNN NKEGPUG ***

VJG HWNN RTQLGEV IWVGPDGTI NKEGPUG
RNGCUG TGCF VJKU DGHQTG AQW FKUVTKDWVG QT WUG VJKU YQTM

Vq rtqvgev vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo okuukqp qh rtqoqvkpi vjg htgg
fkuvtkdwvkqp qh gngevtqpke yqtmu, da wukpi qt fkuvtkdwvkpi vjku yqtm
(qt cpa qvjgt yqtm cuuqekcvgf kp cpa yca ykvj vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti"), aqw citgg vq eqorna ykvj cnn vjg vgtou qh vjg Hwnn Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug (cxckncdng ykvj vjku hkng qt qpnkpg cv
jvvr://iwvgpdgti.pgv/nkegpug).


Ugevkqp 1.  Igpgtcn Vgtou qh Wug cpf Tgfkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtmu

1.C.  Da tgcfkpi qt wukpi cpa rctv qh vjku Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtm, aqw kpfkecvg vjcv aqw jcxg tgcf, wpfgtuvcpf, citgg vq
cpf ceegrv cnn vjg vgtou qh vjku nkegpug cpf kpvgnngevwcn rtqrgtva
(vtcfgoctm/eqratkijv) citggogpv.  Kh aqw fq pqv citgg vq cdkfg da cnn
vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv, aqw owuv egcug wukpi cpf tgvwtp qt fguvtqa
cnn eqrkgu qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kp aqwt rquuguukqp.
Kh aqw rckf c hgg hqt qdvckpkpi c eqra qh qt ceeguu vq c Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm cpf aqw fq pqv citgg vq dg dqwpf da vjg
vgtou qh vjku citggogpv, aqw oca qdvckp c tghwpf htqo vjg rgtuqp qt
gpvkva vq yjqo aqw rckf vjg hgg cu ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrj 1.G.8.

1.D.  "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" ku c tgikuvgtgf vtcfgoctm.  Kv oca qpna dg
wugf qp qt cuuqekcvgf kp cpa yca ykvj cp gngevtqpke yqtm da rgqrng yjq
citgg vq dg dqwpf da vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv.  Vjgtg ctg c hgy
vjkpiu vjcv aqw ecp fq ykvj oquv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu
gxgp ykvjqwv eqornakpi ykvj vjg hwnn vgtou qh vjku citggogpv.  Ugg
rctcitcrj 1.E dgnqy.  Vjgtg ctg c nqv qh vjkpiu aqw ecp fq ykvj Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kh aqw hqnnqy vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv
cpf jgnr rtgugtxg htgg hwvwtg ceeguu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu.  Ugg rctcitcrj 1.G dgnqy.

1.E.  Vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ("vjg Hqwpfcvkqp"
qt RINCH), qypu c eqorkncvkqp eqratkijv kp vjg eqnngevkqp qh Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu.  Pgctna cnn vjg kpfkxkfwcn yqtmu kp vjg
eqnngevkqp ctg kp vjg rwdnke fqockp kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.  Kh cp
kpfkxkfwcn yqtm ku kp vjg rwdnke fqockp kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf aqw ctg
nqecvgf kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, yg fq pqv encko c tkijv vq rtgxgpv aqw htqo
eqrakpi, fkuvtkdwvkpi, rgthqtokpi, fkurncakpi qt etgcvkpi fgtkxcvkxg
yqtmu dcugf qp vjg yqtm cu nqpi cu cnn tghgtgpegu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
ctg tgoqxgf.  Qh eqwtug, yg jqrg vjcv aqw yknn uwrrqtv vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo okuukqp qh rtqoqvkpi htgg ceeguu vq gngevtqpke yqtmu da
htggna ujctkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu kp eqornkcpeg ykvj vjg vgtou qh
vjku citggogpv hqt mggrkpi vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo pcog cuuqekcvgf ykvj
vjg yqtm.  Aqw ecp gcukna eqorna ykvj vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv da
mggrkpi vjku yqtm kp vjg ucog hqtocv ykvj kvu cvvcejgf hwnn Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug yjgp aqw ujctg kv ykvjqwv ejctig ykvj qvjgtu.

1.F.  Vjg eqratkijv ncyu qh vjg rnceg yjgtg aqw ctg nqecvgf cnuq iqxgtp
yjcv aqw ecp fq ykvj vjku yqtm.  Eqratkijv ncyu kp oquv eqwpvtkgu ctg kp
c eqpuvcpv uvcvg qh ejcpig.  Kh aqw ctg qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, ejgem
vjg ncyu qh aqwt eqwpvta kp cffkvkqp vq vjg vgtou qh vjku citggogpv
dghqtg fqypnqcfkpi, eqrakpi, fkurncakpi, rgthqtokpi, fkuvtkdwvkpi qt
etgcvkpi fgtkxcvkxg yqtmu dcugf qp vjku yqtm qt cpa qvjgt Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm.  Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ocmgu pq tgrtgugpvcvkqpu eqpegtpkpi
vjg eqratkijv uvcvwu qh cpa yqtm kp cpa eqwpvta qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.

1.G.  Wpnguu aqw jcxg tgoqxgf cnn tghgtgpegu vq Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti:

1.G.1.  Vjg hqnnqykpi ugpvgpeg, ykvj cevkxg nkpmu vq, qt qvjgt koogfkcvg
ceeguu vq, vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug owuv crrgct rtqokpgpvna
yjgpgxgt cpa eqra qh c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm (cpa yqtm qp yjkej vjg
rjtcug "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" crrgctu, qt ykvj yjkej vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti" ku cuuqekcvgf) ku ceeguugf, fkurncagf, rgthqtogf, xkgygf,
eqrkgf qt fkuvtkdwvgf:

Vjku gDqqm ku hqt vjg wug qh cpaqpg cpayjgtg cv pq equv cpf ykvj
cnoquv pq tguvtkevkqpu yjcvuqgxgt.  Aqw oca eqra kv, ikxg kv cyca qt
tg-wug kv wpfgt vjg vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkegpug kpenwfgf
ykvj vjku gDqqm qt qpnkpg cv yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv

1.G.2.  Kh cp kpfkxkfwcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm ku fgtkxgf
htqo vjg rwdnke fqockp (fqgu pqv eqpvckp c pqvkeg kpfkecvkpi vjcv kv ku
rquvgf ykvj rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqratkijv jqnfgt), vjg yqtm ecp dg eqrkgf
cpf fkuvtkdwvgf vq cpaqpg kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ykvjqwv rcakpi cpa hggu
qt ejctigu.  Kh aqw ctg tgfkuvtkdwvkpi qt rtqxkfkpi ceeguu vq c yqtm
ykvj vjg rjtcug "Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti" cuuqekcvgf ykvj qt crrgctkpi qp vjg
yqtm, aqw owuv eqorna gkvjgt ykvj vjg tgswktgogpvu qh rctcitcrju 1.G.1
vjtqwij 1.G.7 qt qdvckp rgtokuukqp hqt vjg wug qh vjg yqtm cpf vjg
Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm cu ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrju 1.G.8 qt
1.G.9.

1.G.3.  Kh cp kpfkxkfwcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm ku rquvgf
ykvj vjg rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqratkijv jqnfgt, aqwt wug cpf fkuvtkdwvkqp
owuv eqorna ykvj dqvj rctcitcrju 1.G.1 vjtqwij 1.G.7 cpf cpa cffkvkqpcn
vgtou korqugf da vjg eqratkijv jqnfgt.  Cffkvkqpcn vgtou yknn dg nkpmgf
vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug hqt cnn yqtmu rquvgf ykvj vjg
rgtokuukqp qh vjg eqratkijv jqnfgt hqwpf cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjku yqtm.

1.G.4.  Fq pqv wpnkpm qt fgvcej qt tgoqxg vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
Nkegpug vgtou htqo vjku yqtm, qt cpa hkngu eqpvckpkpi c rctv qh vjku
yqtm qt cpa qvjgt yqtm cuuqekcvgf ykvj Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo.

1.G.5.  Fq pqv eqra, fkurnca, rgthqto, fkuvtkdwvg qt tgfkuvtkdwvg vjku
gngevtqpke yqtm, qt cpa rctv qh vjku gngevtqpke yqtm, ykvjqwv
rtqokpgpvna fkurncakpi vjg ugpvgpeg ugv hqtvj kp rctcitcrj 1.G.1 ykvj
cevkxg nkpmu qt koogfkcvg ceeguu vq vjg hwnn vgtou qh vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo Nkegpug.

1.G.6.  Aqw oca eqpxgtv vq cpf fkuvtkdwvg vjku yqtm kp cpa dkpcta,
eqortguugf, octmgf wr, pqprtqrtkgvcta qt rtqrtkgvcta hqto, kpenwfkpi cpa
yqtf rtqeguukpi qt jargtvgzv hqto.  Jqygxgt, kh aqw rtqxkfg ceeguu vq qt
fkuvtkdwvg eqrkgu qh c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm kp c hqtocv qvjgt vjcp
"Rnckp Xcpknnc CUEKK" qt qvjgt hqtocv wugf kp vjg qhhkekcn xgtukqp
rquvgf qp vjg qhhkekcn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo ygd ukvg (yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv),
aqw owuv, cv pq cffkvkqpcn equv, hgg qt gzrgpug vq vjg wugt, rtqxkfg c
eqra, c ogcpu qh gzrqtvkpi c eqra, qt c ogcpu qh qdvckpkpi c eqra wrqp
tgswguv, qh vjg yqtm kp kvu qtkikpcn "Rnckp Xcpknnc CUEKK" qt qvjgt
hqto.  Cpa cnvgtpcvg hqtocv owuv kpenwfg vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
Nkegpug cu urgekhkgf kp rctcitcrj 1.G.1.

1.G.7.  Fq pqv ejctig c hgg hqt ceeguu vq, xkgykpi, fkurncakpi,
rgthqtokpi, eqrakpi qt fkuvtkdwvkpi cpa Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu
wpnguu aqw eqorna ykvj rctcitcrj 1.G.8 qt 1.G.9.

1.G.8.  Aqw oca ejctig c tgcuqpcdng hgg hqt eqrkgu qh qt rtqxkfkpi
ceeguu vq qt fkuvtkdwvkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu rtqxkfgf
vjcv

- Aqw rca c tqacnva hgg qh 20% qh vjg itquu rtqhkvu aqw fgtkxg htqo
     vjg wug qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu ecnewncvgf wukpi vjg ogvjqf
     aqw cntgcfa wug vq ecnewncvg aqwt crrnkecdng vczgu.  Vjg hgg ku
     qygf vq vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm, dwv jg
     jcu citggf vq fqpcvg tqacnvkgu wpfgt vjku rctcitcrj vq vjg
     Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp.  Tqacnva rcaogpvu
     owuv dg rckf ykvjkp 60 fcau hqnnqykpi gcej fcvg qp yjkej aqw
     rtgrctg (qt ctg ngicnna tgswktgf vq rtgrctg) aqwt rgtkqfke vcz
     tgvwtpu.  Tqacnva rcaogpvu ujqwnf dg engctna octmgf cu uwej cpf
     ugpv vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp cv vjg
     cfftguu urgekhkgf kp Ugevkqp 4, "Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv fqpcvkqpu vq
     vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp."

- Aqw rtqxkfg c hwnn tghwpf qh cpa oqpga rckf da c wugt yjq pqvkhkgu
     aqw kp ytkvkpi (qt da g-ockn) ykvjkp 30 fcau qh tgegkrv vjcv u/jg
     fqgu pqv citgg vq vjg vgtou qh vjg hwnn Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
     Nkegpug.  Aqw owuv tgswktg uwej c wugt vq tgvwtp qt
     fguvtqa cnn eqrkgu qh vjg yqtmu rquuguugf kp c rjaukecn ogfkwo
     cpf fkueqpvkpwg cnn wug qh cpf cnn ceeguu vq qvjgt eqrkgu qh
     Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu.

- Aqw rtqxkfg, kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj rctcitcrj 1.H.3, c hwnn tghwpf qh cpa
     oqpga rckf hqt c yqtm qt c tgrncegogpv eqra, kh c fghgev kp vjg
     gngevtqpke yqtm ku fkueqxgtgf cpf tgrqtvgf vq aqw ykvjkp 90 fcau
     qh tgegkrv qh vjg yqtm.

- Aqw eqorna ykvj cnn qvjgt vgtou qh vjku citggogpv hqt htgg
     fkuvtkdwvkqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtmu.

1.G.9.  Kh aqw ykuj vq ejctig c hgg qt fkuvtkdwvg c Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
gngevtqpke yqtm qt itqwr qh yqtmu qp fkhhgtgpv vgtou vjcp ctg ugv
hqtvj kp vjku citggogpv, aqw owuv qdvckp rgtokuukqp kp ytkvkpi htqo
dqvj vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp cpf Okejcgn
Jctv, vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm.  Eqpvcev vjg
Hqwpfcvkqp cu ugv hqtvj kp Ugevkqp 3 dgnqy.

1.H.

1.H.1.  Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti xqnwpvggtu cpf gornqaggu gzrgpf eqpukfgtcdng
ghhqtv vq kfgpvkha, fq eqratkijv tgugctej qp, vtcpuetkdg cpf rtqqhtgcf
rwdnke fqockp yqtmu kp etgcvkpi vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
eqnngevkqp.  Fgurkvg vjgug ghhqtvu, Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu, cpf vjg ogfkwo qp yjkej vjga oca dg uvqtgf, oca eqpvckp
"Fghgevu," uwej cu, dwv pqv nkokvgf vq, kpeqorngvg, kpceewtcvg qt
eqttwrv fcvc, vtcpuetkrvkqp gttqtu, c eqratkijv qt qvjgt kpvgnngevwcn
rtqrgtva kphtkpigogpv, c fghgevkxg qt fcocigf fkum qt qvjgt ogfkwo, c
eqorwvgt xktwu, qt eqorwvgt eqfgu vjcv fcocig qt ecppqv dg tgcf da
aqwt gswkrogpv.

1.H.2.  NKOKVGF YCTTCPVA, FKUENCKOGT QH FCOCIGU - Gzegrv hqt vjg "Tkijv
qh Tgrncegogpv qt Tghwpf" fguetkdgf kp rctcitcrj 1.H.3, vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp, vjg qypgt qh vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo vtcfgoctm, cpf cpa qvjgt rctva fkuvtkdwvkpi c Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtm wpfgt vjku citggogpv, fkuencko cnn
nkcdknkva vq aqw hqt fcocigu, equvu cpf gzrgpugu, kpenwfkpi ngicn
hggu.  AQW CITGG VJCV AQW JCXG PQ TGOGFKGU HQT PGINKIGPEG, UVTKEV
NKCDKNKVA, DTGCEJ QH YCTTCPVA QT DTGCEJ QH EQPVTCEV GZEGRV VJQUG
RTQXKFGF KP RCTCITCRJ H3.  AQW CITGG VJCV VJG HQWPFCVKQP, VJG
VTCFGOCTM QYPGT, CPF CPA FKUVTKDWVQT WPFGT VJKU CITGGOGPV YKNN PQV DG
NKCDNG VQ AQW HQT CEVWCN, FKTGEV, KPFKTGEV, EQPUGSWGPVKCN, RWPKVKXG QT
KPEKFGPVCN FCOCIGU GXGP KH AQW IKXG PQVKEG QH VJG RQUUKDKNKVA QH UWEJ
FCOCIG.

1.H.3.  NKOKVGF TKIJV QH TGRNCEGOGPV QT TGHWPF - Kh aqw fkueqxgt c
fghgev kp vjku gngevtqpke yqtm ykvjkp 90 fcau qh tgegkxkpi kv, aqw ecp
tgegkxg c tghwpf qh vjg oqpga (kh cpa) aqw rckf hqt kv da ugpfkpi c
ytkvvgp gzrncpcvkqp vq vjg rgtuqp aqw tgegkxgf vjg yqtm htqo.  Kh aqw
tgegkxgf vjg yqtm qp c rjaukecn ogfkwo, aqw owuv tgvwtp vjg ogfkwo ykvj
aqwt ytkvvgp gzrncpcvkqp.  Vjg rgtuqp qt gpvkva vjcv rtqxkfgf aqw ykvj
vjg fghgevkxg yqtm oca gngev vq rtqxkfg c tgrncegogpv eqra kp nkgw qh c
tghwpf.  Kh aqw tgegkxgf vjg yqtm gngevtqpkecnna, vjg rgtuqp qt gpvkva
rtqxkfkpi kv vq aqw oca ejqqug vq ikxg aqw c ugeqpf qrrqtvwpkva vq
tgegkxg vjg yqtm gngevtqpkecnna kp nkgw qh c tghwpf.  Kh vjg ugeqpf eqra
ku cnuq fghgevkxg, aqw oca fgocpf c tghwpf kp ytkvkpi ykvjqwv hwtvjgt
qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq hkz vjg rtqdngo.

1.H.4.  Gzegrv hqt vjg nkokvgf tkijv qh tgrncegogpv qt tghwpf ugv hqtvj
kp rctcitcrj 1.H.3, vjku yqtm ku rtqxkfgf vq aqw 'CU-KU' YKVJ PQ QVJGT
YCTTCPVKGU QH CPA MKPF, GZRTGUU QT KORNKGF, KPENWFKPI DWV PQV NKOKVGF VQ
YCTTCPVKGU QH OGTEJCPVKDKNKVA QT HKVPGUU HQT CPA RWTRQUG.

1.H.5.  Uqog uvcvgu fq pqv cnnqy fkuenckogtu qh egtvckp kornkgf
ycttcpvkgu qt vjg gzenwukqp qt nkokvcvkqp qh egtvckp vargu qh fcocigu.
Kh cpa fkuenckogt qt nkokvcvkqp ugv hqtvj kp vjku citggogpv xkqncvgu vjg
ncy qh vjg uvcvg crrnkecdng vq vjku citggogpv, vjg citggogpv ujcnn dg
kpvgtrtgvgf vq ocmg vjg oczkowo fkuenckogt qt nkokvcvkqp rgtokvvgf da
vjg crrnkecdng uvcvg ncy.  Vjg kpxcnkfkva qt wpgphqtegcdknkva qh cpa
rtqxkukqp qh vjku citggogpv ujcnn pqv xqkf vjg tgockpkpi rtqxkukqpu.

1.H.6.  KPFGOPKVA - Aqw citgg vq kpfgopkha cpf jqnf vjg Hqwpfcvkqp, vjg
vtcfgoctm qypgt, cpa cigpv qt gornqagg qh vjg Hqwpfcvkqp, cpaqpg
rtqxkfkpi eqrkgu qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu kp ceeqtfcpeg
ykvj vjku citggogpv, cpf cpa xqnwpvggtu cuuqekcvgf ykvj vjg rtqfwevkqp,
rtqoqvkqp cpf fkuvtkdwvkqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke yqtmu,
jctonguu htqo cnn nkcdknkva, equvu cpf gzrgpugu, kpenwfkpi ngicn hggu,
vjcv ctkug fktgevna qt kpfktgevna htqo cpa qh vjg hqnnqykpi yjkej aqw fq
qt ecwug vq qeewt: (c) fkuvtkdwvkqp qh vjku qt cpa Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
yqtm, (d) cnvgtcvkqp, oqfkhkecvkqp, qt cffkvkqpu qt fgngvkqpu vq cpa
Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo yqtm, cpf (e) cpa Fghgev aqw ecwug.


Ugevkqp  2.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv vjg Okuukqp qh Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo

Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo ku uapqpaoqwu ykvj vjg htgg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh
gngevtqpke yqtmu kp hqtocvu tgcfcdng da vjg ykfguv xctkgva qh eqorwvgtu
kpenwfkpi qduqngvg, qnf, okffng-cigf cpf pgy eqorwvgtu.  Kv gzkuvu
dgecwug qh vjg ghhqtvu qh jwpftgfu qh xqnwpvggtu cpf fqpcvkqpu htqo
rgqrng kp cnn ycnmu qh nkhg.

Xqnwpvggtu cpf hkpcpekcn uwrrqtv vq rtqxkfg xqnwpvggtu ykvj vjg
cuukuvcpeg vjga pggf, ku etkvkecn vq tgcejkpi Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo'u
iqcnu cpf gpuwtkpi vjcv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo eqnngevkqp yknn
tgockp htggna cxckncdng hqt igpgtcvkqpu vq eqog.  Kp 2001, vjg Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ycu etgcvgf vq rtqxkfg c ugewtg
cpf rgtocpgpv hwvwtg hqt Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo cpf hwvwtg igpgtcvkqpu.
Vq ngctp oqtg cdqwv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp
cpf jqy aqwt ghhqtvu cpf fqpcvkqpu ecp jgnr, ugg Ugevkqpu 3 cpf 4
cpf vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ygd rcig cv jvvr://yyy.rinch.qti.


Ugevkqp 3.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg
Hqwpfcvkqp

Vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ku c pqp rtqhkv
501(e)(3) gfwecvkqpcn eqtrqtcvkqp qticpkbgf wpfgt vjg ncyu qh vjg
uvcvg qh Okuukuukrrk cpf itcpvgf vcz gzgorv uvcvwu da vjg Kpvgtpcn
Tgxgpwg Ugtxkeg.  Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u GKP qt hgfgtcn vcz kfgpvkhkecvkqp
pwodgt ku 64-6221541.  Kvu 501(e)(3) ngvvgt ku rquvgf cv
jvvr://rinch.qti/hwpftckukpi.  Eqpvtkdwvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp ctg vcz fgfwevkdng vq vjg hwnn gzvgpv
rgtokvvgf da W.U. hgfgtcn ncyu cpf aqwt uvcvg'u ncyu.

Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u rtkpekrcn qhhkeg ku nqecvgf cv 4557 Ogncp Ft. U.
Hcktdcpmu, CM, 99712., dwv kvu xqnwpvggtu cpf gornqaggu ctg uecvvgtgf
vjtqwijqwv pwogtqwu nqecvkqpu.  Kvu dwukpguu qhhkeg ku nqecvgf cv
809 Pqtvj 1500 Yguv, Ucnv Ncmg Ekva, WV 84116, (801) 596-1887, gockn
dwukpguu@rinch.qti.  Gockn eqpvcev nkpmu cpf wr vq fcvg eqpvcev
kphqtocvkqp ecp dg hqwpf cv vjg Hqwpfcvkqp'u ygd ukvg cpf qhhkekcn
rcig cv jvvr://rinch.qti

Hqt cffkvkqpcn eqpvcev kphqtocvkqp:
     Ft. Itgiqta D. Pgyda
     Ejkgh Gzgewvkxg cpf Fktgevqt
     idpgyda@rinch.qti


Ugevkqp 4.  Kphqtocvkqp cdqwv Fqpcvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti
Nkvgtcta Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp

Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo fgrgpfu wrqp cpf ecppqv uwtxkxg ykvjqwv ykfg
urtgcf rwdnke uwrrqtv cpf fqpcvkqpu vq ectta qwv kvu okuukqp qh
kpetgcukpi vjg pwodgt qh rwdnke fqockp cpf nkegpugf yqtmu vjcv ecp dg
htggna fkuvtkdwvgf kp ocejkpg tgcfcdng hqto ceeguukdng da vjg ykfguv
cttca qh gswkrogpv kpenwfkpi qwvfcvgf gswkrogpv.  Ocpa uocnn fqpcvkqpu
($1 vq $5,000) ctg rctvkewnctna korqtvcpv vq ockpvckpkpi vcz gzgorv
uvcvwu ykvj vjg KTU.

Vjg Hqwpfcvkqp ku eqookvvgf vq eqornakpi ykvj vjg ncyu tgiwncvkpi
ejctkvkgu cpf ejctkvcdng fqpcvkqpu kp cnn 50 uvcvgu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.  Eqornkcpeg tgswktgogpvu ctg pqv wpkhqto cpf kv vcmgu c
eqpukfgtcdng ghhqtv, owej rcrgtyqtm cpf ocpa hggu vq oggv cpf mggr wr
ykvj vjgug tgswktgogpvu.  Yg fq pqv uqnkekv fqpcvkqpu kp nqecvkqpu
yjgtg yg jcxg pqv tgegkxgf ytkvvgp eqphktocvkqp qh eqornkcpeg.  Vq
UGPF FQPCVKQPU qt fgvgtokpg vjg uvcvwu qh eqornkcpeg hqt cpa
rctvkewnct uvcvg xkukv jvvr://rinch.qti

Yjkng yg ecppqv cpf fq pqv uqnkekv eqpvtkdwvkqpu htqo uvcvgu yjgtg yg
jcxg pqv ogv vjg uqnkekvcvkqp tgswktgogpvu, yg mpqy qh pq rtqjkdkvkqp
cickpuv ceegrvkpi wpuqnkekvgf fqpcvkqpu htqo fqpqtu kp uwej uvcvgu yjq
crrtqcej wu ykvj qhhgtu vq fqpcvg.

Kpvgtpcvkqpcn fqpcvkqpu ctg itcvghwnna ceegrvgf, dwv yg ecppqv ocmg
cpa uvcvgogpvu eqpegtpkpi vcz vtgcvogpv qh fqpcvkqpu tgegkxgf htqo
qwvukfg vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.  W.U. ncyu cnqpg uycor qwt uocnn uvchh.

Rngcug ejgem vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Ygd rcigu hqt ewttgpv fqpcvkqp
ogvjqfu cpf cfftguugu.  Fqpcvkqpu ctg ceegrvgf kp c pwodgt qh qvjgt
ycau kpenwfkpi kpenwfkpi ejgemu, qpnkpg rcaogpvu cpf etgfkv ectf
fqpcvkqpu.  Vq fqpcvg, rngcug xkukv: jvvr://rinch.qti/fqpcvg


Ugevkqp 5.  Igpgtcn Kphqtocvkqp Cdqwv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gngevtqpke
yqtmu.

Rtqhguuqt Okejcgn U. Jctv ku vjg qtkikpcvqt qh vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo
eqpegrv qh c nkdtcta qh gngevtqpke yqtmu vjcv eqwnf dg htggna ujctgf
ykvj cpaqpg.  Hqt vjktva agctu, jg rtqfwegf cpf fkuvtkdwvgf Rtqlgev
Iwvgpdgti-vo gDqqmu ykvj qpna c nqqug pgvyqtm qh xqnwpvggt uwrrqtv.


Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo gDqqmu ctg qhvgp etgcvgf htqo ugxgtcn rtkpvgf
gfkvkqpu, cnn qh yjkej ctg eqphktogf cu Rwdnke Fqockp kp vjg W.U.
wpnguu c eqratkijv pqvkeg ku kpenwfgf.  Vjwu, yg fq pqv pgeguuctkna
mggr gDqqmu kp eqornkcpeg ykvj cpa rctvkewnct rcrgt gfkvkqp.


Oquv rgqrng uvctv cv qwt Ygd ukvg yjkej jcu vjg ockp RI ugctej hceknkva:

     jvvr://yyy.iwvgpdgti.pgv

Vjku Ygd ukvg kpenwfgu kphqtocvkqp cdqwv Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti-vo,
kpenwfkpi jqy vq ocmg fqpcvkqpu vq vjg Rtqlgev Iwvgpdgti Nkvgtcta
Ctejkxg Hqwpfcvkqp, jqy vq jgnr rtqfweg qwt pgy gDqqmu, cpf jqy vq
uwduetkdg vq qwt gockn pgyungvvgt vq jgct cdqwv pgy gDqqmu.
