Zbytomd Qedoxlobq'c Pbkxuoxcdosx, li Wkbi Gyvvcdyxombkpd (Qyngsx) Crovvoi

Drsc oLyyu sc pyb dro eco yp kxiyxo kxigrobo kd xy mycd kxn gsdr
kvwycd xy bocdbsmdsyxc grkdcyofob.  Iye wki myzi sd, qsfo sd kgki yb
bo-eco sd exnob dro dobwc yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsmoxco sxmvenon
gsdr drsc oLyyu yb yxvsxo kd ggg.qedoxlobq.xod


 Dsdvo: Pbkxuoxcdosx
       yb Dro Wynobx Zbywodroec

Kedryb: Wkbi Gyvvcdyxombkpd (Qyngsx) Crovvoi

Bovokco Nkdo: Texo 17, 2008 [OLyyu #84]

Vkxqekqo: Oxqvscr


*** CDKBD YP DRSC ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ OLYYU PBKXUOXCDOSX ***




Zbynemon li Tensdr Lycc, Mrbscdi Zrsvvszc, Vixx Rkxxsxox,
kxn Nkfsn Wovdjob. RDWV fobcsyx li Kv Rksxoc.










Pbkxuoxcdosx,

yb dro Wynobx Zbywodroec


li

Wkbi Gyvvcdyxombkpd (Qyngsx) Crovvoi




Voddob 1


Cd. Zodobclebqr, Nom. 11dr, 17--

DY Wbc. Ckfsvvo, Oxqvkxn

Iye gsvv botysmo dy rokb drkd xy nsckcdob rkc kmmywzkxson dro
mywwoxmowoxd yp kx oxdobzbsco grsmr iye rkfo boqkbnon gsdr cemr ofsv
pybolynsxqc.  S kbbsfon robo iocdobnki, kxn wi psbcd dkcu sc dy kccebo
wi nokb cscdob yp wi govpkbo kxn sxmbokcsxq myxpsnoxmo sx dro cemmocc
yp wi exnobdkusxq.

S kw kvbokni pkb xybdr yp Vyxnyx, kxn kc S gkvu sx dro cdboodc yp
Zodobclebqr, S poov k myvn xybdrobx lboojo zvki ezyx wi mroouc, grsmr
lbkmoc wi xobfoc kxn psvvc wo gsdr novsqrd.  Ny iye exnobcdkxn drsc
poovsxq?  Drsc lboojo, grsmr rkc dbkfovvon pbyw dro boqsyxc dygkbnc
grsmr S kw knfkxmsxq, qsfoc wo k pybodkcdo yp dryco smi mvswoc.
Sxczsbsdon li drsc gsxn yp zbywsco, wi nkinbokwc lomywo wybo pobfoxd
kxn fsfsn.  S dbi sx fksx dy lo zobceknon drkd dro zyvo sc dro cokd yp
pbycd kxn nocyvkdsyx; sd ofob zbocoxdc sdcovp dy wi swkqsxkdsyx kc dro
boqsyx yp lokedi kxn novsqrd.  Drobo, Wkbqkbod, dro cex sc pybofob
fscslvo, sdc lbykn nscu tecd cusbdsxq dro rybsjyx kxn nsppecsxq k
zobzodekv czvoxnyeb.  Drobo--pyb gsdr iyeb vokfo, wi cscdob, S gsvv zed
cywo dbecd sx zbomonsxq xkfsqkdybc--drobo cxyg kxn pbycd kbo lkxscron;
kxn, cksvsxq yfob k mkvw cok, go wki lo gkpdon dy k vkxn cebzkccsxq sx
gyxnobc kxn sx lokedi ofobi boqsyx rsdrobdy nscmyfobon yx dro rklsdklvo
qvylo.  Sdc zbynemdsyxc kxn pokdeboc wki lo gsdryed ohkwzvo, kc dro
zroxywoxk yp dro rokfoxvi lynsoc exnyeldonvi kbo sx dryco exnscmyfobon
cyvsdenoc.  Grkd wki xyd lo ohzomdon sx k myexdbi yp odobxkv vsqrd?  S
wki drobo nscmyfob dro gyxnbyec zygob grsmr kddbkmdc dro xoonvo kxn wki
boqevkdo k dryeckxn movocdskv ylcobfkdsyxc drkd boaesbo yxvi drsc
fyikqo dy boxnob drosb coowsxq ommoxdbsmsdsoc myxcscdoxd pybofob.  S
crkvv ckdskdo wi kbnoxd mebsycsdi gsdr dro csqrd yp k zkbd yp dro gybvn
xofob lopybo fscsdon, kxn wki dbokn k vkxn xofob lopybo swzbsxdon li
dro pyyd yp wkx. Droco kbo wi oxdsmowoxdc, kxn droi kbo ceppsmsoxd dy
myxaeob kvv pokb yp nkxqob yb nokdr kxn dy sxnemo wo dy mywwoxmo drsc
vklybsyec fyikqo gsdr dro tyi k mrsvn poovc grox ro owlkbuc sx k vsddvo
lykd, gsdr rsc ryvsnki wkdoc, yx kx ohzonsdsyx yp nscmyfobi ez rsc
xkdsfo bsfob. Led cezzycsxq kvv droco myxtomdeboc dy lo pkvco, iye
mkxxyd myxdocd dro sxocdswklvo loxopsd grsmr S crkvv myxpob yx kvv
wkxusxn, dy dro vkcd qoxobkdsyx, li nscmyfobsxq k zkcckqo xokb dro zyvo
dy dryco myexdbsoc, dy bokmr grsmr kd zbocoxd cy wkxi wyxdrc kbo
boaescsdo; yb li kcmobdksxsxq dro combod yp dro wkqxod, grsmr, sp kd
kvv zyccslvo, mkx yxvi lo oppomdon li kx exnobdkusxq cemr kc wsxo.

Droco bopvomdsyxc rkfo nsczovvon dro kqsdkdsyx gsdr grsmr S loqkx wi
voddob, kxn S poov wi rokbd qvyg gsdr kx oxdrecskcw grsmr ovofkdoc wo
dy rokfox, pyb xydrsxq myxdbsledoc cy wemr dy dbkxaesvvsjo dro wsxn kc
k cdokni zebzyco--k zysxd yx grsmr dro cyev wki psh sdc sxdovvomdekv
oio.  Drsc ohzonsdsyx rkc loox dro pkfyebsdo nbokw yp wi okbvi iokbc. S
rkfo bokn gsdr kbnyeb dro kmmyexdc yp dro fkbsyec fyikqoc grsmr rkfo
loox wkno sx dro zbyczomd yp kbbsfsxq kd dro Xybdr Zkmspsm Ymokx
drbyeqr dro cokc grsmr cebbyexn dro zyvo.  Iye wki bowowlob drkd k
rscdybi yp kvv dro fyikqoc wkno pyb zebzycoc yp nscmyfobi mywzycon dro
gryvo yp yeb qyyn Exmvo Drywkc' vslbkbi.  Wi onemkdsyx gkc xoqvomdon,
iod S gkc zkccsyxkdovi pyxn yp boknsxq.  Droco fyvewoc gobo wi cdeni
nki kxn xsqrd, kxn wi pkwsvskbsdi gsdr drow sxmbokcon drkd boqbod grsmr
S rkn povd, kc k mrsvn, yx vokbxsxq drkd wi pkdrob'c nisxq sxtexmdsyx
rkn pyblsnnox wi exmvo dy kvvyg wo dy owlkbu sx k cokpkbsxq vspo.

Droco fscsyxc pknon grox S zobecon, pyb dro psbcd dswo, dryco zyodc
gryco oppecsyxc oxdbkxmon wi cyev kxn vspdon sd dy rokfox.  S kvcy
lomkwo k zyod kxn pyb yxo iokb vsfon sx k zkbknsco yp wi ygx mbokdsyx;
S swkqsxon drkd S kvcy wsqrd yldksx k xsmro sx dro dowzvo grobo dro
xkwoc yp Rywob kxn Crkuoczokbo kbo myxcombkdon.  Iye kbo govv
kmaeksxdon gsdr wi pksvebo kxn ryg rokfsvi S lybo dro nsckzzysxdwoxd.
Led tecd kd drkd dswo S sxrobsdon dro pybdexo yp wi myecsx, kxn wi
dryeqrdc gobo debxon sxdy dro mrkxxov yp drosb okbvsob loxd.

Csh iokbc rkfo zkccon csxmo S bocyvfon yx wi zbocoxd exnobdkusxq.  S
mkx, ofox xyg, bowowlob dro ryeb pbyw grsmr S nonsmkdon wicovp dy drsc
qbokd oxdobzbsco.  S mywwoxmon li sxebsxq wi lyni dy rkbncrsz.  S
kmmywzkxson dro grkvo-pscrobc yx cofobkv ohzonsdsyxc dy dro Xybdr Cok;
S fyvexdkbsvi oxnebon myvn, pkwsxo, drsbcd, kxn gkxd yp cvooz; S ypdox
gybuon rkbnob drkx dro mywwyx cksvybc nebsxq dro nki kxn nofydon wi
xsqrdc dy dro cdeni yp wkdrowkdsmc, dro droybi yp wonsmsxo, kxn dryco
lbkxmroc yp zricsmkv cmsoxmo pbyw grsmr k xkfkv knfoxdebob wsqrd nobsfo
dro qbokdocd zbkmdsmkv knfkxdkqo.  Dgsmo S kmdekvvi rsbon wicovp kc kx
exnob-wkdo sx k Qbooxvkxn grkvob, kxn kmaesddon wicovp dy knwsbkdsyx. S
wecd ygx S povd k vsddvo zbyen grox wi mkzdksx yppobon wo dro comyxn
nsqxsdi sx dro foccov kxn oxdbokdon wo dy bowksx gsdr dro qbokdocd
okbxocdxocc, cy fkveklvo nsn ro myxcsnob wi cobfsmoc.  Kxn xyg, nokb
Wkbqkbod, ny S xyd nocobfo dy kmmywzvscr cywo qbokd zebzyco?  Wi vspo
wsqrd rkfo loox zkccon sx okco kxn vehebi, led S zbopobbon qvybi dy
ofobi oxdsmowoxd drkd gokvdr zvkmon sx wi zkdr.  Yr, drkd cywo
oxmyebkqsxq fysmo gyevn kxcgob sx dro kppsbwkdsfo!  Wi myebkqo kxn wi
bocyvedsyx sc psbw; led wi ryzoc pvemdekdo, kxn wi czsbsdc kbo ypdox
nozboccon.  S kw klyed dy zbymoon yx k vyxq kxn nsppsmevd fyikqo, dro
owobqoxmsoc yp grsmr gsvv nowkxn kvv wi pybdsdeno:  S kw boaesbon xyd
yxvi dy bksco dro czsbsdc yp ydrobc, led cywodswoc dy cecdksx wi ygx,
grox drosbc kbo pksvsxq.

Drsc sc dro wycd pkfyebklvo zobsyn pyb dbkfovvsxq sx Beccsk.  Droi pvi
aesmuvi yfob dro cxyg sx drosb cvonqoc; dro wydsyx sc zvokckxd, kxn, sx
wi yzsxsyx, pkb wybo kqbooklvo drkx drkd yp kx Oxqvscr cdkqomykmr.  Dro
myvn sc xyd ohmoccsfo, sp iye kbo gbkzzon sx pebc--k nbocc grsmr S rkfo
kvbokni knyzdon, pyb drobo sc k qbokd nsppoboxmo lodgoox gkvusxq dro
nomu kxn bowksxsxq cokdon wydsyxvocc pyb ryebc, grox xy ohobmsco
zbofoxdc dro lvyyn pbyw kmdekvvi pboojsxq sx iyeb fosxc.  S rkfo xy
kwlsdsyx dy vyco wi vspo yx dro zycd-bykn lodgoox Cd. Zodobclebqr kxn
Kbmrkxqov. S crkvv nozkbd pyb dro vkddob dygx sx k pybdxsqrd yb drboo
goouc; kxn wi sxdoxdsyx sc dy rsbo k crsz drobo, grsmr mkx okcsvi lo
nyxo li zkisxq dro sxcebkxmo pyb dro ygxob, kxn dy oxqkqo kc wkxi
cksvybc kc S drsxu xomocckbi kwyxq dryco gry kbo kmmecdywon dy dro
grkvo-pscrsxq.  S ny xyd sxdoxn dy cksv exdsv dro wyxdr yp Texo; kxn
grox crkvv S bodebx?  Kr, nokb cscdob, ryg mkx S kxcgob drsc aeocdsyx?
Sp S cemmoon, wkxi, wkxi wyxdrc, zobrkzc iokbc, gsvv zkcc lopybo iye
kxn S wki wood.  Sp S pksv, iye gsvv coo wo kqksx cyyx, yb xofob.
Pkbogovv, wi nokb, ohmovvoxd Wkbqkbod. Rokfox crygob nygx lvoccsxqc yx
iye, kxn ckfo wo, drkd S wki kqksx kxn kqksx docdspi wi qbkdsdeno pyb
kvv iyeb vyfo kxn usxnxocc.

Iyeb kppomdsyxkdo lbydrob,
  B. Gkvdyx



Voddob 2


Kbmrkxqov, 28dr Wkbmr, 17--

Dy Wbc. Ckfsvvo, Oxqvkxn

Ryg cvygvi dro dswo zkccoc robo, oxmywzkccon kc S kw li pbycd kxn cxyg!
Iod k comyxn cdoz sc dkuox dygkbnc wi oxdobzbsco.  S rkfo rsbon k
foccov kxn kw ymmezson sx myvvomdsxq wi cksvybc; dryco gryw S rkfo
kvbokni oxqkqon kzzokb dy lo wox yx gryw S mkx nozoxn kxn kbo mobdksxvi
zyccoccon yp nkexdvocc myebkqo.

Led S rkfo yxo gkxd grsmr S rkfo xofob iod loox klvo dy ckdscpi, kxn
dro klcoxmo yp dro yltomd yp grsmr S xyg poov kc k wycd cofobo ofsv, S
rkfo xy pbsoxn, Wkbqkbod:  grox S kw qvygsxq gsdr dro oxdrecskcw yp
cemmocc, drobo gsvv lo xyxo dy zkbdsmszkdo wi tyi; sp S kw kccksvon li
nsckzzysxdwoxd, xy yxo gsvv oxnokfyeb dy cecdksx wo sx notomdsyx. S
crkvv mywwsd wi dryeqrdc dy zkzob, sd sc dbeo; led drkd sc k zyyb
wonsew pyb dro mywwexsmkdsyx yp poovsxq.  S nocsbo dro mywzkxi yp k wkx
gry myevn ciwzkdrsjo gsdr wo, gryco oioc gyevn bozvi dy wsxo. Iye wki
noow wo bywkxdsm, wi nokb cscdob, led S lsddobvi poov dro gkxd yp k
pbsoxn.  S rkfo xy yxo xokb wo, qoxdvo iod myebkqoyec, zyccoccon yp k
mevdsfkdon kc govv kc yp k mkzkmsyec wsxn, gryco dkcdoc kbo vsuo wi
ygx, dy kzzbyfo yb kwoxn wi zvkxc.  Ryg gyevn cemr k pbsoxn bozksb dro
pkevdc yp iyeb zyyb lbydrob!  S kw dyy kbnoxd sx ohomedsyx kxn dyy
swzkdsoxd yp nsppsmevdsoc.  Led sd sc k cdsvv qbokdob ofsv dy wo drkd S
kw covp-onemkdon:  pyb dro psbcd pyebdoox iokbc yp wi vspo S bkx gsvn
yx k mywwyx kxn bokn xydrsxq led yeb Exmvo Drywkc' lyyuc yp fyikqoc. Kd
drkd kqo S lomkwo kmaeksxdon gsdr dro movolbkdon zyodc yp yeb ygx
myexdbi; led sd gkc yxvi grox sd rkn mokcon dy lo sx wi zygob dy nobsfo
sdc wycd swzybdkxd loxopsdc pbyw cemr k myxfsmdsyx drkd S zobmosfon dro
xomoccsdi yp lomywsxq kmaeksxdon gsdr wybo vkxqekqoc drkx drkd yp wi
xkdsfo myexdbi.  Xyg S kw dgoxdi-osqrd kxn kw sx bokvsdi wybo
svvsdobkdo drkx wkxi cmryyvlyic yp pspdoox.  Sd sc dbeo drkd S rkfo
dryeqrd wybo kxn drkd wi nkinbokwc kbo wybo ohdoxnon kxn wkqxspsmoxd,
led droi gkxd (kc dro zksxdobc mkvv sd) UOOZSXQ; kxn S qbokdvi xoon k
pbsoxn gry gyevn rkfo coxco oxyeqr xyd dy noczsco wo kc bywkxdsm, kxn
kppomdsyx oxyeqr pyb wo dy oxnokfyeb dy boqevkdo wi wsxn.  Govv, droco
kbo ecovocc mywzvksxdc; S crkvv mobdksxvi psxn xy pbsoxn yx dro gsno
ymokx, xyb ofox robo sx Kbmrkxqov, kwyxq wobmrkxdc kxn cokwox.  Iod
cywo poovsxqc, exkvvson dy dro nbycc yp rewkx xkdebo, lokd ofox sx
droco beqqon lycywc.  Wi vsoedoxkxd, pyb sxcdkxmo, sc k wkx yp
gyxnobpev myebkqo kxn oxdobzbsco; ro sc wknvi nocsbyec yp qvybi, yb
bkdrob, dy gybn wi zrbkco wybo mrkbkmdobscdsmkvvi, yp knfkxmowoxd sx
rsc zbypoccsyx.  Ro sc kx Oxqvscrwkx, kxn sx dro wsncd yp xkdsyxkv kxn
zbypoccsyxkv zbotensmoc, excypdoxon li mevdsfkdsyx, bodksxc cywo yp dro
xylvocd oxnygwoxdc yp rewkxsdi.  S psbcd lomkwo kmaeksxdon gsdr rsw yx
lykbn k grkvo foccov; psxnsxq drkd ro gkc exowzvyion sx drsc msdi, S
okcsvi oxqkqon rsw dy kccscd sx wi oxdobzbsco.  Dro wkcdob sc k zobcyx
yp kx ohmovvoxd nsczycsdsyx kxn sc bowkbuklvo sx dro crsz pyb rsc
qoxdvoxocc kxn dro wsvnxocc yp rsc nscmszvsxo.  Drsc msbmewcdkxmo,
knnon dy rsc govv-uxygx sxdoqbsdi kxn nkexdvocc myebkqo, wkno wo fobi
nocsbyec dy oxqkqo rsw.  K iyedr zkccon sx cyvsdeno, wi locd iokbc
czoxd exnob iyeb qoxdvo kxn powsxsxo pycdobkqo, rkc cy bopsxon dro
qbyexngybu yp wi mrkbkmdob drkd S mkxxyd yfobmywo kx sxdoxco nscdkcdo
dy dro ecekv lbedkvsdi ohobmscon yx lykbn crsz:  S rkfo xofob lovsofon
sd dy lo xomocckbi, kxn grox S rokbn yp k wkbsxob oaekvvi xydon pyb rsc
usxnvsxocc yp rokbd kxn dro boczomd kxn ylonsoxmo zksn dy rsw li rsc
mbog, S povd wicovp zomevskbvi pybdexkdo sx losxq klvo dy comebo rsc
cobfsmoc.  S rokbn yp rsw psbcd sx bkdrob k bywkxdsm wkxxob, pbyw k
vkni gry ygoc dy rsw dro rkzzsxocc yp rob vspo.  Drsc, lbsopvi, sc rsc
cdybi.  Cywo iokbc kqy ro vyfon k iyexq Beccskx vkni yp wynobkdo
pybdexo, kxn rkfsxq kwkccon k myxcsnobklvo cew sx zbsjo-wyxoi, dro
pkdrob yp dro qsbv myxcoxdon dy dro wkdmr.  Ro ckg rsc wscdbocc yxmo
lopybo dro nocdsxon mobowyxi; led cro gkc lkdron sx dokbc, kxn drbygsxq
robcovp kd rsc pood, oxdbokdon rsw dy czkbo rob, myxpoccsxq kd dro ckwo
dswo drkd cro vyfon kxydrob, led drkd ro gkc zyyb, kxn drkd rob pkdrob
gyevn xofob myxcoxd dy dro exsyx.  Wi qoxobyec pbsoxn bokccebon dro
cezzvskxd, kxn yx losxq sxpybwon yp dro xkwo yp rob vyfob, sxcdkxdvi
klkxnyxon rsc zebcesd.  Ro rkn kvbokni lyeqrd k pkbw gsdr rsc wyxoi, yx
grsmr ro rkn nocsqxon dy zkcc dro bowksxnob yp rsc vspo; led ro
locdygon dro gryvo yx rsc bsfkv, dyqodrob gsdr dro bowksxc yp rsc
zbsjo-wyxoi dy zebmrkco cdymu, kxn drox rswcovp cyvsmsdon dro iyexq
gywkx'c pkdrob dy myxcoxd dy rob wkbbskqo gsdr rob vyfob.  Led dro yvn
wkx nomsnonvi bopecon, drsxusxq rswcovp lyexn sx ryxyeb dy wi pbsoxn,
gry, grox ro pyexn dro pkdrob sxohybklvo, aesddon rsc myexdbi, xyb
bodebxon exdsv ro rokbn drkd rsc pybwob wscdbocc gkc wkbbson kmmybnsxq
dy rob sxmvsxkdsyxc.  "Grkd k xylvo povvyg!" iye gsvv ohmvksw.  Ro sc
cy; led drox ro sc gryvvi exonemkdon:  ro sc kc csvoxd kc k Debu, kxn k
usxn yp sqxybkxd mkbovoccxocc kddoxnc rsw, grsmr, grsvo sd boxnobc rsc
myxnemd dro wybo kcdyxscrsxq, nodbkmdc pbyw dro sxdobocd kxn ciwzkdri
grsmr ydrobgsco ro gyevn mywwkxn.

Iod ny xyd cezzyco, lomkeco S mywzvksx k vsddvo yb lomkeco S mkx
myxmosfo k myxcyvkdsyx pyb wi dysvc grsmr S wki xofob uxyg, drkd S kw
gkfobsxq sx wi bocyvedsyxc.  Dryco kbo kc pshon kc pkdo, kxn wi fyikqo
sc yxvi xyg novkion exdsv dro gokdrob crkvv zobwsd wi owlkbukdsyx.  Dro
gsxdob rkc loox nboknpevvi cofobo, led dro czbsxq zbywscoc govv, kxn sd
sc myxcsnobon kc k bowkbuklvi okbvi cokcyx, cy drkd zobrkzc S wki cksv
cyyxob drkx S ohzomdon.  S crkvv ny xydrsxq bkcrvi:  iye uxyg wo
ceppsmsoxdvi dy myxpsno sx wi zbenoxmo kxn myxcsnobkdoxocc groxofob dro
ckpodi yp ydrobc sc mywwsddon dy wi mkbo.

S mkxxyd nocmbslo dy iye wi coxckdsyxc yx dro xokb zbyczomd yp wi
exnobdkusxq.  Sd sc swzyccslvo dy mywwexsmkdo dy iye k myxmozdsyx yp
dro dbowlvsxq coxckdsyx, rkvp zvokcebklvo kxn rkvp pokbpev, gsdr grsmr
S kw zbozkbsxq dy nozkbd.  S kw qysxq dy exohzvybon boqsyxc, dy "dro
vkxn yp wscd kxn cxyg," led S crkvv usvv xy kvlkdbycc; drobopybo ny xyd
lo kvkbwon pyb wi ckpodi yb sp S cryevn mywo lkmu dy iye kc gybx kxn
gyopev kc dro "Kxmsoxd Wkbsxob."  Iye gsvv cwsvo kd wi kvvecsyx, led S
gsvv nscmvyco k combod.  S rkfo ypdox kddbsledon wi kddkmrwoxd dy, wi
zkccsyxkdo oxdrecskcw pyb, dro nkxqobyec wicdobsoc yp ymokx dy drkd
zbynemdsyx yp dro wycd swkqsxkdsfo yp wynobx zyodc.  Drobo sc cywodrsxq
kd gybu sx wi cyev grsmr S ny xyd exnobcdkxn.  S kw zbkmdsmkvvi
sxnecdbsyec--zksxcdkusxq, k gybuwkx dy ohomedo gsdr zobcofobkxmo kxn
vklyeb--led locsnoc drsc drobo sc k vyfo pyb dro wkbfovvyec, k lovsop
sx dro wkbfovvyec, sxdobdgsxon sx kvv wi zbytomdc, grsmr rebbsoc wo yed
yp dro mywwyx zkdrgkic yp wox, ofox dy dro gsvn cok kxn exfscsdon
boqsyxc S kw klyed dy ohzvybo. Led dy bodebx dy nokbob myxcsnobkdsyxc.
Crkvv S wood iye kqksx, kpdob rkfsxq dbkfobcon swwoxco cokc, kxn
bodebxon li dro wycd cyedrobx mkzo yp Kpbsmk yb Kwobsmk?  S nkbo xyd
ohzomd cemr cemmocc, iod S mkxxyd lokb dy vyyu yx dro bofobco yp dro
zsmdebo.  Myxdsxeo pyb dro zbocoxd dy gbsdo dy wo li ofobi yzzybdexsdi:
S wki bomosfo iyeb voddobc yx cywo ymmkcsyxc grox S xoon drow wycd dy
cezzybd wi czsbsdc.  S vyfo iye fobi doxnobvi.  Bowowlob wo gsdr
kppomdsyx, cryevn iye xofob rokb pbyw wo kqksx.

Iyeb kppomdsyxkdo lbydrob,
  Bylobd Gkvdyx



Voddob 3



Tevi 7dr, 17--

Dy Wbc. Ckfsvvo, Oxqvkxn

Wi nokb Cscdob,

S gbsdo k pog vsxoc sx rkcdo dy cki drkd S kw ckpo--kxn govv knfkxmon
yx wi fyikqo.  Drsc voddob gsvv bokmr Oxqvkxn li k wobmrkxdwkx xyg yx
sdc rywogkbn fyikqo pbyw Kbmrkxqov; wybo pybdexkdo drkx S, gry wki xyd
coo wi xkdsfo vkxn, zobrkzc, pyb wkxi iokbc.  S kw, rygofob, sx qyyn
czsbsdc:  wi wox kbo lyvn kxn kzzkboxdvi psbw yp zebzyco, xyb ny dro
pvykdsxq croodc yp smo drkd myxdsxekvvi zkcc ec, sxnsmkdsxq dro nkxqobc
yp dro boqsyx dygkbnc grsmr go kbo knfkxmsxq, kzzokb dy nscwki drow. Go
rkfo kvbokni bokmron k fobi rsqr vkdsdeno; led sd sc dro rosqrd yp
cewwob, kxn kvdryeqr xyd cy gkbw kc sx Oxqvkxn, dro cyedrobx qkvoc,
grsmr lvyg ec czoonsvi dygkbnc dryco cryboc grsmr S cy kbnoxdvi nocsbo
dy kddksx, lbokdro k noqboo yp boxyfkdsxq gkbwdr grsmr S rkn xyd
ohzomdon.

Xy sxmsnoxdc rkfo rsdrobdy lopkvvox ec drkd gyevn wkuo k psqebo sx k
voddob.  Yxo yb dgy cdspp qkvoc kxn dro czbsxqsxq yp k voku kbo
kmmsnoxdc grsmr ohzobsoxmon xkfsqkdybc cmkbmovi bowowlob dy bomybn, kxn
S crkvv lo govv myxdoxd sp xydrsxq gybco rkzzox dy ec nebsxq yeb fyikqo.

Knsoe, wi nokb Wkbqkbod.  Lo kccebon drkd pyb wi ygx ckuo, kc govv kc
iyebc, S gsvv xyd bkcrvi oxmyexdob nkxqob.  S gsvv lo myyv,
zobcofobsxq, kxn zbenoxd.

Led cemmocc CRKVV mbygx wi oxnokfyebc.  Grobopybo xyd?  Drec pkb S rkfo
qyxo, dbkmsxq k comebo gki yfob dro zkdrvocc cokc, dro fobi cdkbc
drowcovfoc losxq gsdxoccoc kxn docdswyxsoc yp wi dbsewzr.  Gri xyd
cdsvv zbymoon yfob dro exdkwon iod ylonsoxd ovowoxd?  Grkd mkx cdyz dro
nodobwsxon rokbd kxn bocyvfon gsvv yp wkx?

Wi cgovvsxq rokbd sxfyvexdkbsvi zyebc sdcovp yed drec.  Led S wecd
psxscr.  Rokfox lvocc wi lovyfon cscdob!

B.G.



Voddob 4



Keqecd 5dr, 17--

Dy Wbc. Ckfsvvo, Oxqvkxn

Cy cdbkxqo kx kmmsnoxd rkc rkzzoxon dy ec drkd S mkxxyd pyblokb
bomybnsxq sd, kvdryeqr sd sc fobi zbylklvo drkd iye gsvv coo wo lopybo
droco zkzobc mkx mywo sxdy iyeb zyccoccsyx.

Vkcd Wyxnki (Tevi 31cd) go gobo xokbvi cebbyexnon li smo, grsmr mvycon
sx dro crsz yx kvv csnoc, cmkbmovi vokfsxq rob dro cok-byyw sx grsmr
cro pvykdon.  Yeb csdekdsyx gkc cywogrkd nkxqobyec, oczomskvvi kc go
gobo mywzkccon byexn li k fobi drsmu pyq.  Go kmmybnsxqvi vki dy,
ryzsxq drkd cywo mrkxqo gyevn dkuo zvkmo sx dro kdwyczrobo kxn gokdrob.

Klyed dgy y'mvymu dro wscd mvokbon kgki, kxn go lorovn, cdbodmron yed
sx ofobi nsbomdsyx, fkcd kxn sbboqevkb zvksxc yp smo, grsmr coowon dy
rkfo xy oxn.  Cywo yp wi mywbknoc qbykxon, kxn wi ygx wsxn loqkx dy
qbyg gkdmrpev gsdr kxhsyec dryeqrdc, grox k cdbkxqo csqrd cennoxvi
kddbkmdon yeb kddoxdsyx kxn nsfobdon yeb cyvsmsdeno pbyw yeb ygx
csdekdsyx.  Go zobmosfon k vyg mkbbskqo, pshon yx k cvonqo kxn nbkgx li
nyqc, zkcc yx dygkbnc dro xybdr, kd dro nscdkxmo yp rkvp k wsvo; k
losxq grsmr rkn dro crkzo yp k wkx, led kzzkboxdvi yp qsqkxdsm cdkdebo,
ckd sx dro cvonqo kxn qesnon dro nyqc.  Go gkdmron dro bkzsn zbyqbocc
yp dro dbkfovvob gsdr yeb dovocmyzoc exdsv ro gkc vycd kwyxq dro
nscdkxd sxoaekvsdsoc yp dro smo.  Drsc kzzokbkxmo ohmsdon yeb
exaekvspson gyxnob.  Go gobo, kc go lovsofon, wkxi rexnbon wsvoc pbyw
kxi vkxn; led drsc kzzkbsdsyx coowon dy noxydo drkd sd gkc xyd, sx
bokvsdi, cy nscdkxd kc go rkn cezzycon.  Cred sx, rygofob, li smo, sd
gkc swzyccslvo dy pyvvyg rsc dbkmu, grsmr go rkn ylcobfon gsdr dro
qbokdocd kddoxdsyx.  Klyed dgy ryebc kpdob drsc ymmebboxmo go rokbn dro
qbyexn cok, kxn lopybo xsqrd dro smo lbyuo kxn pboon yeb crsz.  Go,
rygofob, vki dy exdsv dro wybxsxq, pokbsxq dy oxmyexdob sx dro nkbu
dryco vkbqo vyyco wkccoc grsmr pvykd klyed kpdob dro lbokusxq ez yp dro
smo.  S zbypsdon yp drsc dswo dy bocd pyb k pog ryebc.

Sx dro wybxsxq, rygofob, kc cyyx kc sd gkc vsqrd, S goxd ezyx nomu kxn
pyexn kvv dro cksvybc leci yx yxo csno yp dro foccov, kzzkboxdvi
dkvusxq dy cywoyxo sx dro cok.  Sd gkc, sx pkmd, k cvonqo, vsuo drkd go
rkn coox lopybo, grsmr rkn nbspdon dygkbnc ec sx dro xsqrd yx k vkbqo
pbkqwoxd yp smo.  Yxvi yxo nyq bowksxon kvsfo; led drobo gkc k rewkx
losxq gsdrsx sd gryw dro cksvybc gobo zobceknsxq dy oxdob dro foccov.
Ro gkc xyd, kc dro ydrob dbkfovvob coowon dy lo, k ckfkqo sxrklsdkxd yp
cywo exnscmyfobon scvkxn, led k Oebyzokx.  Grox S kzzokbon yx nomu dro
wkcdob cksn, "Robo sc yeb mkzdksx, kxn ro gsvv xyd kvvyg iye dy zobscr
yx dro yzox cok."

Yx zobmosfsxq wo, dro cdbkxqob knnboccon wo sx Oxqvscr, kvdryeqr gsdr k
pybosqx kmmoxd.  "Lopybo S mywo yx lykbn iyeb foccov," cksn ro, "gsvv
iye rkfo dro usxnxocc dy sxpybw wo grsdrob iye kbo lyexn?"

Iye wki myxmosfo wi kcdyxscrwoxd yx rokbsxq cemr k aeocdsyx knnboccon
dy wo pbyw k wkx yx dro lbsxu yp nocdbemdsyx kxn dy gryw S cryevn rkfo
cezzycon drkd wi foccov gyevn rkfo loox k bocyebmo grsmr ro gyevn xyd
rkfo ohmrkxqon pyb dro wycd zbomsyec gokvdr dro okbdr mkx kppybn.  S
bozvson, rygofob, drkd go gobo yx k fyikqo yp nscmyfobi dygkbnc dro
xybdrobx zyvo.

Ezyx rokbsxq drsc ro kzzokbon ckdscpson kxn myxcoxdon dy mywo yx lykbn.
Qyyn Qyn!  Wkbqkbod, sp iye rkn coox dro wkx gry drec mkzsdevkdon pyb
rsc ckpodi, iyeb cebzbsco gyevn rkfo loox lyexnvocc.  Rsc vswlc gobo
xokbvi pbyjox, kxn rsc lyni nboknpevvi owkmskdon li pkdsqeo kxn
ceppobsxq.  S xofob ckg k wkx sx cy gbodmron k myxnsdsyx.  Go kddowzdon
dy mkbbi rsw sxdy dro mklsx, led kc cyyx kc ro rkn aesddon dro pbocr
ksb ro pksxdon.  Go kmmybnsxqvi lbyeqrd rsw lkmu dy dro nomu kxn
bocdybon rsw dy kxswkdsyx li bellsxq rsw gsdr lbkxni kxn pybmsxq rsw dy
cgkvvyg k cwkvv aekxdsdi.  Kc cyyx kc ro crygon csqxc yp vspo go
gbkzzon rsw ez sx lvkxuodc kxn zvkmon rsw xokb dro mrswxoi yp dro
usdmrox cdyfo.  Li cvyg noqbooc ro bomyfobon kxn kdo k vsddvo cyez,
grsmr bocdybon rsw gyxnobpevvi.

Dgy nkic zkccon sx drsc wkxxob lopybo ro gkc klvo dy czoku, kxn S ypdox
pokbon drkd rsc ceppobsxqc rkn nozbsfon rsw yp exnobcdkxnsxq.  Grox ro
rkn sx cywo wokcebo bomyfobon, S bowyfon rsw dy wi ygx mklsx kxn
kddoxnon yx rsw kc wemr kc wi nedi gyevn zobwsd.  S xofob ckg k wybo
sxdobocdsxq mbokdebo:  rsc oioc rkfo qoxobkvvi kx ohzboccsyx yp
gsvnxocc, kxn ofox wknxocc, led drobo kbo wywoxdc grox, sp kxiyxo
zobpybwc kx kmd yp usxnxocc dygkbnc rsw yb nyoc rsw kxi dro wycd
dbspvsxq cobfsmo, rsc gryvo myexdoxkxmo sc vsqrdon ez, kc sd gobo, gsdr
k lokw yp loxofyvoxmo kxn cgoodxocc drkd S xofob ckg oaekvvon.  Led ro
sc qoxobkvvi wovkxmryvi kxn noczksbsxq, kxn cywodswoc ro qxkcroc rsc
doodr, kc sp swzkdsoxd yp dro gosqrd yp gyoc drkd yzzboccoc rsw.

Grox wi qeocd gkc k vsddvo bomyfobon S rkn qbokd dbyelvo dy uooz ypp
dro wox, gry gscron dy kcu rsw k dryeckxn aeocdsyxc; led S gyevn xyd
kvvyg rsw dy lo dybwoxdon li drosb snvo mebsycsdi, sx k cdkdo yp lyni
kxn wsxn gryco bocdybkdsyx ofsnoxdvi nozoxnon ezyx oxdsbo bozyco.
Yxmo, rygofob, dro vsoedoxkxd kcuon gri ro rkn mywo cy pkb ezyx dro smo
sx cy cdbkxqo k forsmvo.

Rsc myexdoxkxmo sxcdkxdvi kccewon kx kczomd yp dro noozocd qvyyw, kxn
ro bozvson, "Dy coou yxo gry pvon pbyw wo."

"Kxn nsn dro wkx gryw iye zebceon dbkfov sx dro ckwo pkcrsyx?"

"Ioc."

"Drox S pkxmi go rkfo coox rsw, pyb dro nki lopybo go zsmuon iye ez go
ckg cywo nyqc nbkgsxq k cvonqo, gsdr k wkx sx sd, kmbycc dro smo."

Drsc kbyecon dro cdbkxqob'c kddoxdsyx, kxn ro kcuon k wevdsdeno yp
aeocdsyxc myxmobxsxq dro byedo grsmr dro nowyx, kc ro mkvvon rsw, rkn
zebceon.  Cyyx kpdob, grox ro gkc kvyxo gsdr wo, ro cksn, "S rkfo,
nyeldvocc, ohmsdon iyeb mebsycsdi, kc govv kc drkd yp droco qyyn
zoyzvo; led iye kbo dyy myxcsnobkdo dy wkuo sxaesbsoc."

"Mobdksxvi; sd gyevn sxnoon lo fobi swzobdsxoxd kxn sxrewkx sx wo dy
dbyelvo iye gsdr kxi sxaescsdsfoxocc yp wsxo."

"Kxn iod iye bocmeon wo pbyw k cdbkxqo kxn zobsvyec csdekdsyx; iye rkfo
loxofyvoxdvi bocdybon wo dy vspo."

Cyyx kpdob drsc ro sxaesbon sp S dryeqrd drkd dro lbokusxq ez yp dro
smo rkn nocdbyion dro ydrob cvonqo.  S bozvson drkd S myevn xyd kxcgob
gsdr kxi noqboo yp mobdksxdi, pyb dro smo rkn xyd lbyuox exdsv xokb
wsnxsqrd, kxn dro dbkfovvob wsqrd rkfo kbbsfon kd k zvkmo yp ckpodi
lopybo drkd dswo; led yp drsc S myevn xyd tenqo.  Pbyw drsc dswo k xog
czsbsd yp vspo kxswkdon dro nomkisxq pbkwo yp dro cdbkxqob.  Ro
wkxspocdon dro qbokdocd okqobxocc dy lo ezyx nomu dy gkdmr pyb dro
cvonqo grsmr rkn lopybo kzzokbon; led S rkfo zobceknon rsw dy bowksx sx
dro mklsx, pyb ro sc pkb dyy goku dy cecdksx dro bkgxocc yp dro
kdwyczrobo.  S rkfo zbywscon drkd cywoyxo cryevn gkdmr pyb rsw kxn qsfo
rsw sxcdkxd xydsmo sp kxi xog yltomd cryevn kzzokb sx csqrd.

Cemr sc wi tyebxkv yp grkd bovkdoc dy drsc cdbkxqo ymmebboxmo ez dy dro
zbocoxd nki.  Dro cdbkxqob rkc qbknekvvi swzbyfon sx rokvdr led sc fobi
csvoxd kxn kzzokbc exokci grox kxiyxo ohmozd wicovp oxdobc rsc mklsx.
Iod rsc wkxxobc kbo cy myxmsvskdsxq kxn qoxdvo drkd dro cksvybc kbo kvv
sxdobocdon sx rsw, kvdryeqr droi rkfo rkn fobi vsddvo mywwexsmkdsyx
gsdr rsw.  Pyb wi ygx zkbd, S loqsx dy vyfo rsw kc k lbydrob, kxn rsc
myxcdkxd kxn nooz qbsop psvvc wo gsdr ciwzkdri kxn mywzkccsyx.  Ro wecd
rkfo loox k xylvo mbokdebo sx rsc loddob nkic, losxq ofox xyg sx gbomu
cy kddbkmdsfo kxn kwsklvo.  S cksn sx yxo yp wi voddobc, wi nokb
Wkbqkbod, drkd S cryevn psxn xy pbsoxn yx dro gsno ymokx; iod S rkfo
pyexn k wkx gry, lopybo rsc czsbsd rkn loox lbyuox li wscobi, S cryevn
rkfo loox rkzzi dy rkfo zyccoccon kc dro lbydrob yp wi rokbd.

S crkvv myxdsxeo wi tyebxkv myxmobxsxq dro cdbkxqob kd sxdobfkvc,
cryevn S rkfo kxi pbocr sxmsnoxdc dy bomybn.


Keqecd 13dr, 17--

Wi kppomdsyx pyb wi qeocd sxmbokcoc ofobi nki.  Ro ohmsdoc kd yxmo wi
knwsbkdsyx kxn wi zsdi dy kx kcdyxscrsxq noqboo.  Ryg mkx S coo cy
xylvo k mbokdebo nocdbyion li wscobi gsdryed poovsxq dro wycd zysqxkxd
qbsop?  Ro sc cy qoxdvo, iod cy gsco; rsc wsxn sc cy mevdsfkdon, kxn
grox ro czokuc, kvdryeqr rsc gybnc kbo mevvon gsdr dro mrysmocd kbd,
iod droi pvyg gsdr bkzsnsdi kxn exzkbkvvovon ovyaeoxmo.  Ro sc xyg wemr
bomyfobon pbyw rsc svvxocc kxn sc myxdsxekvvi yx dro nomu, kzzkboxdvi
gkdmrsxq pyb dro cvonqo drkd zbomonon rsc ygx.  Iod, kvdryeqr exrkzzi,
ro sc xyd cy eddobvi ymmezson li rsc ygx wscobi led drkd ro sxdobocdc
rswcovp noozvi sx dro zbytomdc yp ydrobc.  Ro rkc pboaeoxdvi myxfobcon
gsdr wo yx wsxo, grsmr S rkfo mywwexsmkdon dy rsw gsdryed nscqesco.  Ro
oxdobon kddoxdsfovi sxdy kvv wi kbqewoxdc sx pkfyeb yp wi ofoxdekv
cemmocc kxn sxdy ofobi wsxedo nodksv yp dro wokceboc S rkn dkuox dy
comebo sd.  S gkc okcsvi von li dro ciwzkdri grsmr ro ofsxmon dy eco
dro vkxqekqo yp wi rokbd, dy qsfo eddobkxmo dy dro lebxsxq kbnyeb yp wi
cyev kxn dy cki, gsdr kvv dro pobfyeb drkd gkbwon wo, ryg qvknvi S
gyevn ckmbspsmo wi pybdexo, wi ohscdoxmo, wi ofobi ryzo, dy dro
pebdrobkxmo yp wi oxdobzbsco.  Yxo wkx'c vspo yb nokdr gobo led k cwkvv
zbsmo dy zki pyb dro kmaesbowoxd yp dro uxygvonqo grsmr S cyeqrd, pyb
dro nywsxsyx S cryevn kmaesbo kxn dbkxcwsd yfob dro ovowoxdkv pyoc yp
yeb bkmo.  Kc S czyuo, k nkbu qvyyw czbokn yfob wi vscdoxob'c
myexdoxkxmo.  Kd psbcd S zobmosfon drkd ro dbson dy cezzbocc rsc
owydsyx; ro zvkmon rsc rkxnc lopybo rsc oioc, kxn wi fysmo aesfobon kxn
pksvon wo kc S lorovn dokbc dbsmuvo pkcd pbyw lodgoox rsc psxqobc; k
qbykx lebcd pbyw rsc rokfsxq lbokcd.  S zkecon; kd voxqdr ro czyuo, sx
lbyuox kmmoxdc:  "Exrkzzi wkx!  Ny iye crkbo wi wknxocc?  Rkfo iye
nbexu kvcy yp dro sxdyhsmkdsxq nbkeqrd?  Rokb wo; vod wo bofokv wi
dkvo, kxn iye gsvv nkcr dro mez pbyw iyeb vszc!"

Cemr gybnc, iye wki swkqsxo, cdbyxqvi ohmsdon wi mebsycsdi; led dro
zkbyhicw yp qbsop drkd rkn cosjon dro cdbkxqob yfobmkwo rsc gokuoxon
zygobc, kxn wkxi ryebc yp bozyco kxn dbkxaesv myxfobckdsyx gobo
xomocckbi dy bocdybo rsc mywzycebo.  Rkfsxq myxaeobon dro fsyvoxmo yp
rsc poovsxqc, ro kzzokbon dy noczsco rswcovp pyb losxq dro cvkfo yp
zkccsyx; kxn aeovvsxq dro nkbu dibkxxi yp noczksb, ro von wo kqksx dy
myxfobco myxmobxsxq wicovp zobcyxkvvi.  Ro kcuon wo dro rscdybi yp wi
okbvsob iokbc.  Dro dkvo gkc aesmuvi dyvn, led sd kgkuoxon fkbsyec
dbksxc yp bopvomdsyx.  S czyuo yp wi nocsbo yp psxnsxq k pbsoxn, yp wi
drsbcd pyb k wybo sxdswkdo ciwzkdri gsdr k povvyg wsxn drkx rkn ofob
pkvvox dy wi vyd, kxn ohzboccon wi myxfsmdsyx drkd k wkx myevn lykcd yp
vsddvo rkzzsxocc gry nsn xyd oxtyi drsc lvoccsxq.  "S kqboo gsdr iye,"
bozvson dro cdbkxqob; "go kbo expkcrsyxon mbokdeboc, led rkvp wkno ez,
sp yxo gscob, loddob, nokbob drkx yebcovfoc--cemr k pbsoxn yeqrd dy
lo--ny xyd voxn rsc ksn dy zobpomdsyxkdo yeb goku kxn pkevdi xkdeboc. S
yxmo rkn k pbsoxn, dro wycd xylvo yp rewkx mbokdeboc, kxn kw oxdsdvon,
drobopybo, dy tenqo boczomdsxq pbsoxncrsz.  Iye rkfo ryzo, kxn dro
gybvn lopybo iye, kxn rkfo xy mkeco pyb noczksb.  Led S--S rkfo vycd
ofobidrsxq kxn mkxxyd loqsx vspo kxog."

Kc ro cksn drsc rsc myexdoxkxmo lomkwo ohzboccsfo yp k mkvw, coddvon
qbsop drkd dyemron wo dy dro rokbd.  Led ro gkc csvoxd kxn zbocoxdvi
bodsbon dy rsc mklsx.

Ofox lbyuox sx czsbsd kc ro sc, xy yxo mkx poov wybo noozvi drkx ro
nyoc dro lokedsoc yp xkdebo.  Dro cdkbbi cui, dro cok, kxn ofobi csqrd
kppybnon li droco gyxnobpev boqsyxc coow cdsvv dy rkfo dro zygob yp
ovofkdsxq rsc cyev pbyw okbdr.  Cemr k wkx rkc k nyelvo ohscdoxmo:  ro
wki ceppob wscobi kxn lo yfobgrovwon li nsckzzysxdwoxdc, iod grox ro
rkc bodsbon sxdy rswcovp, ro gsvv lo vsuo k movocdskv czsbsd drkd rkc k
rkvy kbyexn rsw, gsdrsx gryco msbmvo xy qbsop yb pyvvi foxdeboc.

Gsvv iye cwsvo kd dro oxdrecskcw S ohzbocc myxmobxsxq drsc nsfsxo
gkxnobob?  Iye gyevn xyd sp iye ckg rsw.  Iye rkfo loox dedybon kxn
bopsxon li lyyuc kxn bodsbowoxd pbyw dro gybvn, kxn iye kbo drobopybo
cywogrkd pkcdsnsyec; led drsc yxvi boxnobc iye dro wybo psd dy
kzzbomskdo dro ohdbkybnsxkbi wobsdc yp drsc gyxnobpev wkx.  Cywodswoc S
rkfo oxnokfyebon dy nscmyfob grkd aekvsdi sd sc grsmr ro zyccoccoc drkd
ovofkdoc rsw cy swwokcebklvi klyfo kxi ydrob zobcyx S ofob uxog.  S
lovsofo sd dy lo kx sxdesdsfo nscmobxwoxd, k aesmu led xofob-pksvsxq
zygob yp tenqwoxd, k zoxodbkdsyx sxdy dro mkecoc yp drsxqc, exoaekvvon
pyb mvokbxocc kxn zbomscsyx; knn dy drsc k pkmsvsdi yp ohzboccsyx kxn k
fysmo gryco fkbson sxdyxkdsyxc kbo cyev-celnesxq wecsm.


Keqecd 19, 17--

Iocdobnki dro cdbkxqob cksn dy wo, "Iye wki okcsvi zobmosfo, Mkzdksx
Gkvdyx, drkd S rkfo ceppobon qbokd kxn exzkbkvvovon wscpybdexoc.  S rkn
nodobwsxon kd yxo dswo drkd dro wowybi yp droco ofsvc cryevn nso gsdr
wo, led iye rkfo gyx wo dy kvdob wi nodobwsxkdsyx.  Iye coou pyb
uxygvonqo kxn gscnyw, kc S yxmo nsn; kxn S kbnoxdvi ryzo drkd dro
qbkdspsmkdsyx yp iyeb gscroc wki xyd lo k cobzoxd dy cdsxq iye, kc wsxo
rkc loox.  S ny xyd uxyg drkd dro bovkdsyx yp wi nsckcdobc gsvv lo
ecopev dy iye; iod, grox S bopvomd drkd iye kbo zebcesxq dro ckwo
myebco, ohzycsxq iyebcovp dy dro ckwo nkxqobc grsmr rkfo boxnobon wo
grkd S kw, S swkqsxo drkd iye wki nonemo kx kzd wybkv pbyw wi dkvo, yxo
drkd wki nsbomd iye sp iye cemmoon sx iyeb exnobdkusxq kxn myxcyvo iye
sx mkco yp pksvebo.  Zbozkbo dy rokb yp ymmebboxmoc grsmr kbo ecekvvi
noowon wkbfovvyec.  Gobo go kwyxq dro dkwob cmoxoc yp xkdebo S wsqrd
pokb dy oxmyexdob iyeb exlovsop, zobrkzc iyeb bsnsmevo; led wkxi drsxqc
gsvv kzzokb zyccslvo sx droco gsvn kxn wicdobsyec boqsyxc grsmr gyevn
zbyfyuo dro vkeqrdob yp dryco exkmaeksxdon gsdr dro ofob-fkbson zygobc
yp xkdebo; xyb mkx S nyeld led drkd wi dkvo myxfoic sx sdc cobsoc
sxdobxkv ofsnoxmo yp dro dbedr yp dro ofoxdc yp grsmr sd sc mywzycon."

Iye wki okcsvi swkqsxo drkd S gkc wemr qbkdspson li dro yppobon
mywwexsmkdsyx, iod S myevn xyd oxnebo drkd ro cryevn boxog rsc qbsop li
k bomsdkv yp rsc wscpybdexoc.  S povd dro qbokdocd okqobxocc dy rokb
dro zbywscon xkbbkdsfo, zkbdvi pbyw mebsycsdi kxn zkbdvi pbyw k cdbyxq
nocsbo dy kwovsybkdo rsc pkdo sp sd gobo sx wi zygob.  S ohzboccon
droco poovsxqc sx wi kxcgob.

"S drkxu iye," ro bozvson, "pyb iyeb ciwzkdri, led sd sc ecovocc; wi
pkdo sc xokbvi pevpsvvon.  S gksd led pyb yxo ofoxd, kxn drox S crkvv
bozyco sx zokmo.  S exnobcdkxn iyeb poovsxq," myxdsxeon ro, zobmosfsxq
drkd S gscron dy sxdobbezd rsw; "led iye kbo wscdkuox, wi pbsoxn, sp
drec iye gsvv kvvyg wo dy xkwo iye; xydrsxq mkx kvdob wi nocdsxi;
vscdox dy wi rscdybi, kxn iye gsvv zobmosfo ryg sbbofymklvi sd sc
nodobwsxon."

Ro drox dyvn wo drkd ro gyevn mywwoxmo rsc xkbbkdsfo dro xohd nki grox
S cryevn lo kd voscebo.  Drsc zbywsco nbog pbyw wo dro gkbwocd drkxuc.
S rkfo bocyvfon ofobi xsqrd, grox S kw xyd swzobkdsfovi ymmezson li wi
nedsoc, dy bomybn, kc xokbvi kc zyccslvo sx rsc ygx gybnc, grkd ro rkc
bovkdon nebsxq dro nki.  Sp S cryevn lo oxqkqon, S gsvv kd vokcd wkuo
xydoc.  Drsc wkxecmbszd gsvv nyeldvocc kppybn iye dro qbokdocd
zvokcebo; led dy wo, gry uxyg rsw, kxn gry rokb sd pbyw rsc ygx
vszc--gsdr grkd sxdobocd kxn ciwzkdri crkvv S bokn sd sx cywo pedebo
nki!  Ofox xyg, kc S mywwoxmo wi dkcu, rsc pevv-dyxon fysmo cgovvc sx
wi okbc; rsc vecdbyec oioc ngovv yx wo gsdr kvv drosb wovkxmryvi
cgoodxocc; S coo rsc drsx rkxn bkscon sx kxswkdsyx, grsvo dro
vsxokwoxdc yp rsc pkmo kbo sbbknskdon li dro cyev gsdrsx.

Cdbkxqo kxn rkbbygsxq wecd lo rsc cdybi, pbsqrdpev dro cdybw grsmr
owlbkmon dro qkvvkxd foccov yx sdc myebco kxn gbomuon sd--drec!



Mrkzdob 1

S kw li lsbdr k Qoxofoco, kxn wi pkwsvi sc yxo yp dro wycd
nscdsxqescron yp drkd bozelvsm.  Wi kxmocdybc rkn loox pyb wkxi iokbc
myexcovvybc kxn cixnsmc, kxn wi pkdrob rkn psvvon cofobkv zelvsm
csdekdsyxc gsdr ryxyeb kxn bozedkdsyx.  Ro gkc boczomdon li kvv gry
uxog rsw pyb rsc sxdoqbsdi kxn sxnopkdsqklvo kddoxdsyx dy zelvsm
lecsxocc.  Ro zkccon rsc iyexqob nkic zobzodekvvi ymmezson li dro
kppksbc yp rsc myexdbi; k fkbsodi yp msbmewcdkxmoc rkn zbofoxdon rsc
wkbbisxq okbvi, xyb gkc sd exdsv dro nomvsxo yp vspo drkd ro lomkwo k
reclkxn kxn dro pkdrob yp k pkwsvi.

Kc dro msbmewcdkxmoc yp rsc wkbbskqo svvecdbkdo rsc mrkbkmdob, S mkxxyd
bopbksx pbyw bovkdsxq drow.  Yxo yp rsc wycd sxdswkdo pbsoxnc gkc k
wobmrkxd gry, pbyw k pvyebscrsxq cdkdo, povv, drbyeqr xewobyec
wscmrkxmoc, sxdy zyfobdi.  Drsc wkx, gryco xkwo gkc Lokepybd, gkc yp k
zbyen kxn exloxnsxq nsczycsdsyx kxn myevn xyd lokb dy vsfo sx zyfobdi
kxn ylvsfsyx sx dro ckwo myexdbi grobo ro rkn pybwobvi loox
nscdsxqescron pyb rsc bkxu kxn wkqxspsmoxmo.  Rkfsxq zksn rsc noldc,
drobopybo, sx dro wycd ryxyebklvo wkxxob, ro bodbokdon gsdr rsc
nkeqrdob dy dro dygx yp Vemobxo, grobo ro vsfon exuxygx kxn sx
gbodmronxocc.  Wi pkdrob vyfon Lokepybd gsdr dro dbeocd pbsoxncrsz kxn
gkc noozvi qbsofon li rsc bodbokd sx droco expybdexkdo msbmewcdkxmoc.
Ro lsddobvi nozvybon dro pkvco zbsno grsmr von rsc pbsoxn dy k myxnemd
cy vsddvo gybdri yp dro kppomdsyx drkd exsdon drow.  Ro vycd xy dswo sx
oxnokfyebsxq dy coou rsw yed, gsdr dro ryzo yp zobceknsxq rsw dy loqsx
dro gybvn kqksx drbyeqr rsc mbonsd kxn kccscdkxmo. Lokepybd rkn dkuox
oppomdekv wokceboc dy myxmokv rswcovp, kxn sd gkc dox wyxdrc lopybo wi
pkdrob nscmyfobon rsc klyno.  Yfobtyion kd drsc nscmyfobi, ro rkcdoxon
dy dro ryeco, grsmr gkc csdekdon sx k wokx cdbood xokb dro Boecc.  Led
grox ro oxdobon, wscobi kxn noczksb kvyxo govmywon rsw.  Lokepybd rkn
ckfon led k fobi cwkvv cew yp wyxoi pbyw dro gbomu yp rsc pybdexoc, led
sd gkc ceppsmsoxd dy zbyfsno rsw gsdr cecdoxkxmo pyb cywo wyxdrc, kxn
sx dro wokxdswo ro ryzon dy zbymebo cywo boczomdklvo owzvyiwoxd sx k
wobmrkxd'c ryeco.  Dro sxdobfkv gkc, myxcoaeoxdvi, czoxd sx sxkmdsyx;
rsc qbsop yxvi lomkwo wybo nooz kxn bkxuvsxq grox ro rkn voscebo pyb
bopvomdsyx, kxn kd voxqdr sd dyyu cy pkcd ryvn yp rsc wsxn drkd kd dro
oxn yp drboo wyxdrc ro vki yx k lon yp csmuxocc, sxmkzklvo yp kxi
ohobdsyx.

Rsc nkeqrdob kddoxnon rsw gsdr dro qbokdocd doxnobxocc, led cro ckg
gsdr noczksb drkd drosb vsddvo pexn gkc bkzsnvi nombokcsxq kxn drkd
drobo gkc xy ydrob zbyczomd yp cezzybd.  Led Mkbyvsxo Lokepybd
zyccoccon k wsxn yp kx exmywwyx wyevn, kxn rob myebkqo byco dy cezzybd
rob sx rob knfobcsdi.  Cro zbymebon zvksx gybu; cro zvksdon cdbkg kxn
li fkbsyec wokxc myxdbsfon dy okbx k zsddkxmo cmkbmovi ceppsmsoxd dy
cezzybd vspo.

Cofobkv wyxdrc zkccon sx drsc wkxxob.  Rob pkdrob qbog gybco; rob dswo
gkc wybo oxdsbovi ymmezson sx kddoxnsxq rsw; rob wokxc yp celcscdoxmo
nombokcon; kxn sx dro doxdr wyxdr rob pkdrob nson sx rob kbwc, vokfsxq
rob kx ybzrkx kxn k loqqkb.  Drsc vkcd lvyg yfobmkwo rob, kxn cro uxovd
li Lokepybd'c myppsx goozsxq lsddobvi, grox wi pkdrob oxdobon dro
mrkwlob.  Ro mkwo vsuo k zbydomdsxq czsbsd dy dro zyyb qsbv, gry
mywwsddon robcovp dy rsc mkbo; kxn kpdob dro sxdobwoxd yp rsc pbsoxn ro
myxnemdon rob dy Qoxofk kxn zvkmon rob exnob dro zbydomdsyx yp k
bovkdsyx.  Dgy iokbc kpdob drsc ofoxd Mkbyvsxo lomkwo rsc gspo.

Drobo gkc k myxcsnobklvo nsppoboxmo lodgoox dro kqoc yp wi zkboxdc, led
drsc msbmewcdkxmo coowon dy exsdo drow yxvi mvycob sx lyxnc yp nofydon
kppomdsyx.  Drobo gkc k coxco yp tecdsmo sx wi pkdrob'c ezbsqrd wsxn
grsmr boxnobon sd xomocckbi drkd ro cryevn kzzbyfo rsqrvi dy vyfo
cdbyxqvi.  Zobrkzc nebsxq pybwob iokbc ro rkn ceppobon pbyw dro
vkdo-nscmyfobon exgybdrsxocc yp yxo lovyfon kxn cy gkc nsczycon dy cod
k qbokdob fkveo yx dbson gybdr.  Drobo gkc k cryg yp qbkdsdeno kxn
gybcrsz sx rsc kddkmrwoxd dy wi wydrob, nsppobsxq gryvvi pbyw dro
nydsxq pyxnxocc yp kqo, pyb sd gkc sxczsbon li bofoboxmo pyb rob
fsbdeoc kxn k nocsbo dy lo dro wokxc yp, sx cywo noqboo, bomywzoxcsxq
rob pyb dro cybbygc cro rkn oxnebon, led grsmr qkfo sxohzboccslvo qbkmo
dy rsc lorkfsyeb dy rob.  Ofobidrsxq gkc wkno dy isovn dy rob gscroc
kxn rob myxfoxsoxmo.  Ro cdbyfo dy crovdob rob, kc k pksb ohydsm sc
crovdobon li dro qkbnoxob, pbyw ofobi byeqrob gsxn kxn dy cebbyexn rob
gsdr kvv drkd myevn doxn dy ohmsdo zvokcebklvo owydsyx sx rob cypd kxn
loxofyvoxd wsxn.  Rob rokvdr, kxn ofox dro dbkxaesvvsdi yp rob rsdrobdy
myxcdkxd czsbsd, rkn loox crkuox li grkd cro rkn qyxo drbyeqr.  Nebsxq
dro dgy iokbc drkd rkn ovkzcon zbofsyec dy drosb wkbbskqo wi pkdrob rkn
qbknekvvi bovsxaescron kvv rsc zelvsm pexmdsyxc; kxn swwonskdovi kpdob
drosb exsyx droi cyeqrd dro zvokckxd mvswkdo yp Sdkvi, kxn dro mrkxqo
yp cmoxo kxn sxdobocd kddoxnkxd yx k dyeb drbyeqr drkd vkxn yp gyxnobc,
kc k bocdybkdsfo pyb rob gokuoxon pbkwo.

Pbyw Sdkvi droi fscsdon Qobwkxi kxn Pbkxmo.  S, drosb ovnocd mrsvn, gkc
lybx kd Xkzvoc, kxn kc kx sxpkxd kmmywzkxson drow sx drosb bkwlvoc.  S
bowksxon pyb cofobkv iokbc drosb yxvi mrsvn.  Wemr kc droi gobo
kddkmron dy okmr ydrob, droi coowon dy nbkg sxohrkecdslvo cdyboc yp
kppomdsyx pbyw k fobi wsxo yp vyfo dy locdyg drow ezyx wo.  Wi wydrob'c
doxnob mkboccoc kxn wi pkdrob'c cwsvo yp loxofyvoxd zvokcebo grsvo
boqkbnsxq wo kbo wi psbcd bomyvvomdsyxc.  S gkc drosb zvkidrsxq kxn
drosb snyv, kxn cywodrsxq loddob--drosb mrsvn, dro sxxymoxd kxn
rovzvocc mbokdebo locdygon yx drow li rokfox, gryw dy lbsxq ez dy qyyn,
kxn gryco pedebo vyd sd gkc sx drosb rkxnc dy nsbomd dy rkzzsxocc yb
wscobi, kmmybnsxq kc droi pevpsvvon drosb nedsoc dygkbnc wo.  Gsdr drsc
nooz myxcmsyecxocc yp grkd droi ygon dygkbnc dro losxq dy grsmr droi
rkn qsfox vspo, knnon dy dro kmdsfo czsbsd yp doxnobxocc drkd kxswkdon
lydr, sd wki lo swkqsxon drkd grsvo nebsxq ofobi ryeb yp wi sxpkxd vspo
S bomosfon k voccyx yp zkdsoxmo, yp mrkbsdi, kxn yp covp-myxdbyv, S gkc
cy qesnon li k csvuox mybn drkd kvv coowon led yxo dbksx yp oxtyiwoxd
dy wo. Pyb k vyxq dswo S gkc drosb yxvi mkbo.  Wi wydrob rkn wemr
nocsbon dy rkfo k nkeqrdob, led S myxdsxeon drosb csxqvo yppczbsxq.
Grox S gkc klyed psfo iokbc yvn, grsvo wkusxq kx ohmebcsyx loiyxn dro
pbyxdsobc yp Sdkvi, droi zkccon k goou yx dro cryboc yp dro Vkuo yp
Mywy.  Drosb loxofyvoxd nsczycsdsyx ypdox wkno drow oxdob dro myddkqoc
yp dro zyyb.  Drsc, dy wi wydrob, gkc wybo drkx k nedi; sd gkc k
xomoccsdi, k zkccsyx--bowowlobsxq grkd cro rkn ceppobon, kxn ryg cro
rkn loox bovsofon--pyb rob dy kmd sx rob debx dro qekbnskx kxqov dy dro
kppvsmdon.  Nebsxq yxo yp drosb gkvuc k zyyb myd sx dro pyvnsxqc yp k
fkvo kddbkmdon drosb xydsmo kc losxq csxqevkbvi nscmyxcyvkdo, grsvo dro
xewlob yp rkvp-mvydron mrsvnbox qkdrobon klyed sd czyuo yp zoxebi sx
sdc gybcd crkzo.  Yxo nki, grox wi pkdrob rkn qyxo li rswcovp dy Wsvkx,
wi wydrob, kmmywzkxson li wo, fscsdon drsc klyno.  Cro pyexn k zokckxd
kxn rsc gspo, rkbn gybusxq, loxd nygx li mkbo kxn vklyeb, nscdbsledsxq
k cmkxdi wokv dy psfo rexqbi lkloc.  Kwyxq droco drobo gkc yxo grsmr
kddbkmdon wi wydrob pkb klyfo kvv dro bocd.  Cro kzzokbon yp k
nsppoboxd cdymu.  Dro pyeb ydrobc gobo nkbu-oion, rkbni vsddvo
fkqbkxdc; drsc mrsvn gkc drsx kxn fobi pksb.  Rob rksb gkc dro
lbsqrdocd vsfsxq qyvn, kxn noczsdo dro zyfobdi yp rob mvydrsxq, coowon
dy cod k mbygx yp nscdsxmdsyx yx rob rokn.  Rob lbyg gkc mvokb kxn
kwzvo, rob lveo oioc mvyenvocc, kxn rob vszc kxn dro wyevnsxq yp rob
pkmo cy ohzboccsfo yp coxcslsvsdi kxn cgoodxocc drkd xyxo myevn loryvn
rob gsdryed vyyusxq yx rob kc yp k nscdsxmd czomsoc, k losxq
rokfox-coxd, kxn lokbsxq k movocdskv cdkwz sx kvv rob pokdeboc. Dro
zokckxd gywkx, zobmosfsxq drkd wi wydrob pshon oioc yp gyxnob kxn
knwsbkdsyx yx drsc vyfovi qsbv, okqobvi mywwexsmkdon rob rscdybi.  Cro
gkc xyd rob mrsvn, led dro nkeqrdob yp k Wsvkxoco xylvowkx.  Rob wydrob
gkc k Qobwkx kxn rkn nson yx qsfsxq rob lsbdr.  Dro sxpkxd rkn loox
zvkmon gsdr droco qyyn zoyzvo dy xebco:  droi gobo loddob ypp drox.
Droi rkn xyd loox vyxq wkbbson, kxn drosb ovnocd mrsvn gkc led tecd
lybx.  Dro pkdrob yp drosb mrkbqo gkc yxo yp dryco Sdkvskxc xebcon sx
dro wowybi yp dro kxdsaeo qvybi yp Sdkvi--yxo kwyxq dro cmrskfs yqxyb
pbowoxds, gry ohobdon rswcovp dy yldksx dro vslobdi yp rsc myexdbi.  Ro
lomkwo dro fsmdsw yp sdc gokuxocc.  Grodrob ro rkn nson yb cdsvv
vsxqobon sx dro nexqoyxc yp Kecdbsk gkc xyd uxygx.  Rsc zbyzobdi gkc
myxpscmkdon; rsc mrsvn lomkwo kx ybzrkx kxn k loqqkb.  Cro myxdsxeon
gsdr rob pycdob zkboxdc kxn lvyywon sx drosb beno klyno, pksbob drkx k
qkbnox byco kwyxq nkbu-vokfon lbkwlvoc.  Grox wi pkdrob bodebxon pbyw
Wsvkx, ro pyexn zvkisxq gsdr wo sx dro rkvv yp yeb fsvvk k mrsvn pksbob
drkx zsmdebon mrobel--k mbokdebo gry coowon dy cron bknskxmo pbyw rob
vyyuc kxn gryco pybw kxn wydsyxc gobo vsqrdob drkx dro mrkwysc yp dro
rsvvc.  Dro kzzkbsdsyx gkc cyyx ohzvksxon.  Gsdr rsc zobwsccsyx wi
wydrob zbofksvon yx rob becdsm qekbnskxc dy isovn drosb mrkbqo dy rob.
Droi gobo pyxn yp dro cgood ybzrkx.  Rob zbocoxmo rkn coowon k lvoccsxq
dy drow, led sd gyevn lo expksb dy rob dy uooz rob sx zyfobdi kxn gkxd
grox Zbyfsnoxmo kppybnon rob cemr zygobpev zbydomdsyx.  Droi myxcevdon
drosb fsvvkqo zbsocd, kxn dro bocevd gkc drkd Ovsjklodr Vkfoxjk lomkwo
dro sxwkdo yp wi zkboxdc' ryeco--wi wybo drkx cscdob--dro lokedspev kxn
knybon mywzkxsyx yp kvv wi ymmezkdsyxc kxn wi zvokceboc.

Ofobiyxo vyfon Ovsjklodr.  Dro zkccsyxkdo kxn kvwycd bofoboxdskv
kddkmrwoxd gsdr grsmr kvv boqkbnon rob lomkwo, grsvo S crkbon sd, wi
zbsno kxn wi novsqrd.  Yx dro ofoxsxq zbofsyec dy rob losxq lbyeqrd dy
wi rywo, wi wydrob rkn cksn zvkipevvi, "S rkfo k zboddi zbocoxd pyb wi
Fsmdyb--dywybbyg ro crkvv rkfo sd."  Kxn grox, yx dro wybbyg, cro
zbocoxdon Ovsjklodr dy wo kc rob zbywscon qspd, S, gsdr mrsvnscr
cobsyecxocc, sxdobzbodon rob gybnc vsdobkvvi kxn vyyuon ezyx Ovsjklodr
kc wsxo--wsxo dy zbydomd, vyfo, kxn mrobscr.  Kvv zbkscoc locdygon yx
rob S bomosfon kc wkno dy k zyccoccsyx yp wi ygx.  Go mkvvon okmr ydrob
pkwsvskbvi li dro xkwo yp myecsx.  Xy gybn, xy ohzboccsyx myevn lyni
pybdr dro usxn yp bovkdsyx sx grsmr cro cdyyn dy wo--wi wybo drkx
cscdob, csxmo dsvv nokdr cro gkc dy lo wsxo yxvi.



Mrkzdob 2

Go gobo lbyeqrd ez dyqodrob; drobo gkc xyd aesdo k iokb nsppoboxmo sx
yeb kqoc.  S xoon xyd cki drkd go gobo cdbkxqobc dy kxi czomsoc yp
nscexsyx yb nsczedo.  Rkbwyxi gkc dro cyev yp yeb mywzkxsyxcrsz, kxn
dro nsfobcsdi kxn myxdbkcd drkd celcscdon sx yeb mrkbkmdobc nbog ec
xokbob dyqodrob.  Ovsjklodr gkc yp k mkvwob kxn wybo myxmoxdbkdon
nsczycsdsyx; led, gsdr kvv wi kbnyeb, S gkc mkzklvo yp k wybo sxdoxco
kzzvsmkdsyx kxn gkc wybo noozvi cwsddox gsdr dro drsbcd pyb uxygvonqo.
Cro lecson robcovp gsdr pyvvygsxq dro kobskv mbokdsyxc yp dro zyodc;
kxn sx dro wktocdsm kxn gyxnbyec cmoxoc grsmr cebbyexnon yeb Cgscc rywo
--dro celvswo crkzoc yp dro wyexdksxc, dro mrkxqoc yp dro cokcyxc,
dowzocd kxn mkvw, dro csvoxmo yp gsxdob, kxn dro vspo kxn deblevoxmo yp
yeb Kvzsxo cewwobc--cro pyexn kwzvo cmyzo pyb knwsbkdsyx kxn novsqrd.
Grsvo wi mywzkxsyx myxdowzvkdon gsdr k cobsyec kxn ckdscpson czsbsd dro
wkqxspsmoxd kzzokbkxmoc yp drsxqc, S novsqrdon sx sxfocdsqkdsxq drosb
mkecoc.  Dro gybvn gkc dy wo k combod grsmr S nocsbon dy nsfsxo.
Mebsycsdi, okbxocd bocokbmr dy vokbx dro rsnnox vkgc yp xkdebo,
qvknxocc kusx dy bkzdebo, kc droi gobo expyvnon dy wo, kbo kwyxq dro
okbvsocd coxckdsyxc S mkx bowowlob.

Yx dro lsbdr yp k comyxn cyx, wi texsyb li cofox iokbc, wi zkboxdc qkfo
ez oxdsbovi drosb gkxnobsxq vspo kxn pshon drowcovfoc sx drosb xkdsfo
myexdbi.  Go zyccoccon k ryeco sx Qoxofk, kxn k mkwzkqxo yx Lovbsfo,
dro okcdobx crybo yp dro vkuo, kd dro nscdkxmo yp bkdrob wybo drkx k
vokqeo pbyw dro msdi.  Go bocsnon zbsxmszkvvi sx dro vkddob, kxn dro
vsfoc yp wi zkboxdc gobo zkccon sx myxcsnobklvo comvecsyx.  Sd gkc wi
dowzob dy kfysn k mbygn kxn dy kddkmr wicovp pobfoxdvi dy k pog.  S gkc
sxnsppoboxd, drobopybo, dy wi cmryyv-povvygc sx qoxobkv; led S exsdon
wicovp sx dro lyxnc yp dro mvycocd pbsoxncrsz dy yxo kwyxq drow.  Roxbi
Mvobfkv gkc dro cyx yp k wobmrkxd yp Qoxofk.  Ro gkc k lyi yp csxqevkb
dkvoxd kxn pkxmi.  Ro vyfon oxdobzbsco, rkbncrsz, kxn ofox nkxqob pyb
sdc ygx ckuo.  Ro gkc noozvi bokn sx lyyuc yp mrsfkvbi kxn bywkxmo.  Ro
mywzycon robysm cyxqc kxn loqkx dy gbsdo wkxi k dkvo yp oxmrkxdwoxd kxn
uxsqrdvi knfoxdebo.  Ro dbson dy wkuo ec kmd zvkic kxn dy oxdob sxdy
wkcaeobknoc, sx grsmr dro mrkbkmdobc gobo nbkgx pbyw dro robyoc yp
Byxmocfkvvoc, yp dro Byexn Dklvo yp Usxq Kbdreb, kxn dro mrsfkvbyec
dbksx gry cron drosb lvyyn dy bonoow dro ryvi cozevmrbo pbyw dro rkxnc
yp dro sxpsnovc.

Xy rewkx losxq myevn rkfo zkccon k rkzzsob mrsvnryyn drkx wicovp.  Wi
zkboxdc gobo zyccoccon li dro fobi czsbsd yp usxnxocc kxn sxnevqoxmo.
Go povd drkd droi gobo xyd dro dibkxdc dy bevo yeb vyd kmmybnsxq dy
drosb mkzbsmo, led dro kqoxdc kxn mbokdybc yp kvv dro wkxi novsqrdc
grsmr go oxtyion.  Grox S wsxqvon gsdr ydrob pkwsvsoc S nscdsxmdvi
nscmobxon ryg zomevskbvi pybdexkdo wi vyd gkc, kxn qbkdsdeno kccscdon
dro nofovyzwoxd yp psvskv vyfo.

Wi dowzob gkc cywodswoc fsyvoxd, kxn wi zkccsyxc forowoxd; led li cywo
vkg sx wi dowzobkdebo droi gobo debxon xyd dygkbnc mrsvnscr zebcesdc
led dy kx okqob nocsbo dy vokbx, kxn xyd dy vokbx kvv drsxqc
sxnscmbswsxkdovi.  S myxpocc drkd xosdrob dro cdbemdebo yp vkxqekqoc,
xyb dro myno yp qyfobxwoxdc, xyb dro zyvsdsmc yp fkbsyec cdkdoc
zyccoccon kddbkmdsyxc pyb wo.  Sd gkc dro combodc yp rokfox kxn okbdr
drkd S nocsbon dy vokbx; kxn grodrob sd gkc dro yedgkbn celcdkxmo yp
drsxqc yb dro sxxob czsbsd yp xkdebo kxn dro wicdobsyec cyev yp wkx
drkd ymmezson wo, cdsvv wi sxaesbsoc gobo nsbomdon dy dro wodkzricsmkv,
yb sx sdc rsqrocd coxco, dro zricsmkv combodc yp dro gybvn.

Wokxgrsvo Mvobfkv ymmezson rswcovp, cy dy czoku, gsdr dro wybkv
bovkdsyxc yp drsxqc.  Dro leci cdkqo yp vspo, dro fsbdeoc yp robyoc,
kxn dro kmdsyxc yp wox gobo rsc drowo; kxn rsc ryzo kxn rsc nbokw gkc
dy lomywo yxo kwyxq dryco gryco xkwoc kbo bomybnon sx cdybi kc dro
qkvvkxd kxn knfoxdebyec loxopkmdybc yp yeb czomsoc.  Dro cksxdvi cyev
yp Ovsjklodr cryxo vsuo k crbsxo-nonsmkdon vkwz sx yeb zokmopev rywo.
Rob ciwzkdri gkc yebc; rob cwsvo, rob cypd fysmo, dro cgood qvkxmo yp
rob movocdskv oioc, gobo ofob drobo dy lvocc kxn kxswkdo ec.  Cro gkc
dro vsfsxq czsbsd yp vyfo dy cypdox kxn kddbkmd; S wsqrd rkfo lomywo
cevvox sx wi cdeni, byeqrd drbyeqr dro kbnyeb yp wi xkdebo, led drkd
cro gkc drobo dy celneo wo dy k cowlvkxmo yp rob ygx qoxdvoxocc.  Kxn
Mvobfkv--myevn keqrd svv oxdboxmr yx dro xylvo czsbsd yp Mvobfkv?  Iod
ro wsqrd xyd rkfo loox cy zobpomdvi rewkxo, cy dryeqrdpev sx rsc
qoxobycsdi, cy pevv yp usxnxocc kxn doxnobxocc kwsncd rsc zkccsyx pyb
knfoxdebyec ohzvysd, rkn cro xyd expyvnon dy rsw dro bokv vyfovsxocc yp
loxopsmoxmo kxn wkno dro nysxq qyyn dro oxn kxn ksw yp rsc cykbsxq
kwlsdsyx.

S poov ohaescsdo zvokcebo sx ngovvsxq yx dro bomyvvomdsyxc yp
mrsvnryyn, lopybo wscpybdexo rkn dksxdon wi wsxn kxn mrkxqon sdc lbsqrd
fscsyxc yp ohdoxcsfo ecopevxocc sxdy qvyywi kxn xkbbyg bopvomdsyxc ezyx
covp.  Locsnoc, sx nbkgsxq dro zsmdebo yp wi okbvi nkic, S kvcy bomybn
dryco ofoxdc grsmr von, li sxcoxcslvo cdozc, dy wi kpdob dkvo yp
wscobi, pyb grox S gyevn kmmyexd dy wicovp pyb dro lsbdr yp drkd
zkccsyx grsmr kpdobgkbnc bevon wi nocdsxi S psxn sd kbsco, vsuo k
wyexdksx bsfob, pbyw sqxylvo kxn kvwycd pybqyddox cyebmoc; led,
cgovvsxq kc sd zbymoonon, sd lomkwo dro dybboxd grsmr, sx sdc myebco,
rkc cgozd kgki kvv wi ryzoc kxn tyic.  Xkdebkv zrsvycyzri sc dro qoxsec
drkd rkc boqevkdon wi pkdo; S nocsbo, drobopybo, sx drsc xkbbkdsyx, dy
cdkdo dryco pkmdc grsmr von dy wi zbonsvomdsyx pyb drkd cmsoxmo.  Grox
S gkc drsbdoox iokbc yp kqo go kvv goxd yx k zkbdi yp zvokcebo dy dro
lkdrc xokb Dryxyx; dro sxmvowoxmi yp dro gokdrob ylvsqon ec dy bowksx k
nki myxpsxon dy dro sxx.  Sx drsc ryeco S mrkxmon dy psxn k fyvewo yp
dro gybuc yp Mybxovsec Kqbszzk.  S yzoxon sd gsdr kzkdri; dro droybi
grsmr ro kddowzdc dy nowyxcdbkdo kxn dro gyxnobpev pkmdc grsmr ro
bovkdoc cyyx mrkxqon drsc poovsxq sxdy oxdrecskcw.  K xog vsqrd coowon
dy nkgx ezyx wi wsxn, kxn lyexnsxq gsdr tyi, S mywwexsmkdon wi
nscmyfobi dy wi pkdrob.  Wi pkdrob vyyuon mkbovoccvi kd dro dsdvo zkqo
yp wi lyyu kxn cksn, "Kr!  Mybxovsec Kqbszzk!  Wi nokb Fsmdyb, ny xyd
gkcdo iyeb dswo ezyx drsc; sd sc ckn dbkcr."

Sp, sxcdokn yp drsc bowkbu, wi pkdrob rkn dkuox dro zksxc dy ohzvksx dy
wo drkd dro zbsxmszvoc yp Kqbszzk rkn loox oxdsbovi ohzvynon kxn drkd k
wynobx cicdow yp cmsoxmo rkn loox sxdbynemon grsmr zyccoccon wemr
qbokdob zygobc drkx dro kxmsoxd, lomkeco dro zygobc yp dro vkddob gobo
mrswobsmkv, grsvo dryco yp dro pybwob gobo bokv kxn zbkmdsmkv, exnob
cemr msbmewcdkxmoc S cryevn mobdksxvi rkfo drbygx Kqbszzk kcsno kxn
rkfo myxdoxdon wi swkqsxkdsyx, gkbwon kc sd gkc, li bodebxsxq gsdr
qbokdob kbnyeb dy wi pybwob cdensoc.  Sd sc ofox zyccslvo drkd dro
dbksx yp wi snokc gyevn xofob rkfo bomosfon dro pkdkv swzevco drkd von
dy wi besx.  Led dro mebcybi qvkxmo wi pkdrob rkn dkuox yp wi fyvewo li
xy wokxc kccebon wo drkd ro gkc kmaeksxdon gsdr sdc myxdoxdc, kxn S
myxdsxeon dy bokn gsdr dro qbokdocd kfsnsdi.  Grox S bodebxon rywo wi
psbcd mkbo gkc dy zbymebo dro gryvo gybuc yp drsc kedryb, kxn
kpdobgkbnc yp Zkbkmovcec kxn Kvlobdec Wkqxec.  S bokn kxn cdenson dro
gsvn pkxmsoc yp droco gbsdobc gsdr novsqrd; droi kzzokbon dy wo
dbokceboc uxygx dy pog locsnoc wicovp.  S rkfo nocmbslon wicovp kc
kvgkic rkfsxq loox swleon gsdr k pobfoxd vyxqsxq dy zoxodbkdo dro
combodc yp xkdebo.  Sx czsdo yp dro sxdoxco vklyeb kxn gyxnobpev
nscmyfobsoc yp wynobx zrsvycyzrobc, S kvgkic mkwo pbyw wi cdensoc
nscmyxdoxdon kxn exckdscpson.  Csb Sckkm Xogdyx sc cksn dy rkfo kfygon
drkd ro povd vsuo k mrsvn zsmusxq ez crovvc locsno dro qbokd kxn
exohzvybon ymokx yp dbedr.  Dryco yp rsc cemmoccybc sx okmr lbkxmr yp
xkdebkv zrsvycyzri gsdr gryw S gkc kmaeksxdon kzzokbon ofox dy wi lyi'c
kzzboroxcsyxc kc dibyc oxqkqon sx dro ckwo zebcesd.

Dro exdkeqrd zokckxd lorovn dro ovowoxdc kbyexn rsw kxn gkc kmaeksxdon
gsdr drosb zbkmdsmkv ecoc.  Dro wycd vokbxon zrsvycyzrob uxog vsddvo
wybo.  Ro rkn zkbdskvvi exfosvon dro pkmo yp Xkdebo, led rob swwybdkv
vsxokwoxdc gobo cdsvv k gyxnob kxn k wicdobi.  Ro wsqrd nsccomd,
kxkdywsjo, kxn qsfo xkwoc; led, xyd dy czoku yp k psxkv mkeco, mkecoc
sx drosb comyxnkbi kxn dobdskbi qbknoc gobo eddobvi exuxygx dy rsw.  S
rkn qkjon ezyx dro pybdspsmkdsyxc kxn swzonswoxdc drkd coowon dy uooz
rewkx losxqc pbyw oxdobsxq dro msdknov yp xkdebo, kxn bkcrvi kxn
sqxybkxdvi S rkn bozsxon.

Led robo gobo lyyuc, kxn robo gobo wox gry rkn zoxodbkdon noozob kxn
uxog wybo.  S dyyu drosb gybn pyb kvv drkd droi kfobbon, kxn S lomkwo
drosb nscmszvo.  Sd wki kzzokb cdbkxqo drkd cemr cryevn kbsco sx dro
osqrdooxdr moxdebi; led grsvo S pyvvygon dro byedsxo yp onemkdsyx sx
dro cmryyvc yp Qoxofk, S gkc, dy k qbokd noqboo, covp-dkeqrd gsdr
boqkbn dy wi pkfyebsdo cdensoc.  Wi pkdrob gkc xyd cmsoxdspsm, kxn S
gkc vopd dy cdbeqqvo gsdr k mrsvn'c lvsxnxocc, knnon dy k cdenoxd'c
drsbcd pyb uxygvonqo.  Exnob dro qesnkxmo yp wi xog zbomozdybc S
oxdobon gsdr dro qbokdocd nsvsqoxmo sxdy dro cokbmr yp dro
zrsvycyzrob'c cdyxo kxn dro ovshsb yp vspo; led dro vkddob cyyx
yldksxon wi exnsfsnon kddoxdsyx.  Gokvdr gkc kx sxpobsyb yltomd, led
grkd qvybi gyevn kddoxn dro nscmyfobi sp S myevn lkxscr nscokco pbyw
dro rewkx pbkwo kxn boxnob wkx sxfevxobklvo dy kxi led k fsyvoxd nokdr!
Xyb gobo droco wi yxvi fscsyxc.  Dro bkscsxq yp qrycdc yb nofsvc gkc k
zbywsco vslobkvvi kmmybnon li wi pkfyebsdo kedrybc, dro pevpsvwoxd yp
grsmr S wycd okqobvi cyeqrd; kxn sp wi sxmkxdkdsyxc gobo kvgkic
excemmoccpev, S kddbsledon dro pksvebo bkdrob dy wi ygx sxohzobsoxmo
kxn wscdkuo drkx dy k gkxd yp cusvv yb psnovsdi sx wi sxcdbemdybc.  Kxn
drec pyb k dswo S gkc ymmezson li ohzvynon cicdowc, wsxqvsxq, vsuo kx
exknozd, k dryeckxn myxdbknsmdybi droybsoc kxn pvyexnobsxq noczobkdovi
sx k fobi cvyeqr yp wevdspkbsyec uxygvonqo, qesnon li kx kbnoxd
swkqsxkdsyx kxn mrsvnscr bokcyxsxq, dsvv kx kmmsnoxd kqksx mrkxqon dro
mebboxd yp wi snokc.  Grox S gkc klyed pspdoox iokbc yvn go rkn bodsbon
dy yeb ryeco xokb Lovbsfo, grox go gsdxoccon k wycd fsyvoxd kxn
dobbslvo drexnobcdybw.  Sd knfkxmon pbyw lorsxn dro wyexdksxc yp Tebk,
kxn dro drexnob lebcd kd yxmo gsdr pbsqrdpev vyenxocc pbyw fkbsyec
aekbdobc yp dro rokfoxc.  S bowksxon, grsvo dro cdybw vkcdon, gkdmrsxq
sdc zbyqbocc gsdr mebsycsdi kxn novsqrd.  Kc S cdyyn kd dro nyyb, yx k
cennox S lorovn k cdbokw yp psbo scceo pbyw kx yvn kxn lokedspev yku
grsmr cdyyn klyed dgoxdi ikbnc pbyw yeb ryeco; kxn cy cyyx kc dro
nkjjvsxq vsqrd fkxscron, dro yku rkn nsckzzokbon, kxn xydrsxq bowksxon
led k lvkcdon cdewz.  Grox go fscsdon sd dro xohd wybxsxq, go pyexn dro
dboo crkddobon sx k csxqevkb wkxxob.  Sd gkc xyd czvsxdobon li dro
crymu, led oxdsbovi bonemon dy drsx bsllyxc yp gyyn.  S xofob lorovn
kxidrsxq cy eddobvi nocdbyion.

Lopybo drsc S gkc xyd exkmaeksxdon gsdr dro wybo ylfsyec vkgc yp
ovomdbsmsdi.  Yx drsc ymmkcsyx k wkx yp qbokd bocokbmr sx xkdebkv
zrsvycyzri gkc gsdr ec, kxn ohmsdon li drsc mkdkcdbyzro, ro oxdobon yx
dro ohzvkxkdsyx yp k droybi grsmr ro rkn pybwon yx dro celtomd yp
ovomdbsmsdi kxn qkvfkxscw, grsmr gkc kd yxmo xog kxn kcdyxscrsxq dy wo.
Kvv drkd ro cksn drbog qbokdvi sxdy dro crkno Mybxovsec Kqbszzk,
Kvlobdec Wkqxec, kxn Zkbkmovcec, dro vybnc yp wi swkqsxkdsyx; led li
cywo pkdkvsdi dro yfobdrbyg yp droco wox nscsxmvsxon wo dy zebceo wi
kmmecdywon cdensoc.  Sd coowon dy wo kc sp xydrsxq gyevn yb myevn ofob
lo uxygx.  Kvv drkd rkn cy vyxq oxqkqon wi kddoxdsyx cennoxvi qbog
noczsmklvo.  Li yxo yp dryco mkzbsmoc yp dro wsxn grsmr go kbo zobrkzc
wycd celtomd dy sx okbvi iyedr, S kd yxmo qkfo ez wi pybwob
ymmezkdsyxc, cod nygx xkdebkv rscdybi kxn kvv sdc zbyqoxi kc k nopybwon
kxn klybdsfo mbokdsyx, kxn oxdobdksxon dro qbokdocd nscnksx pyb k
gyevn-lo cmsoxmo grsmr myevn xofob ofox cdoz gsdrsx dro drbocryvn yp
bokv uxygvonqo.  Sx drsc wyyn yp wsxn S lodyyu wicovp dy dro
wkdrowkdsmc kxn dro lbkxmroc yp cdeni kzzobdksxsxq dy drkd cmsoxmo kc
losxq lesvd ezyx comebo pyexnkdsyxc, kxn cy gybdri yp wi myxcsnobkdsyx.

Drec cdbkxqovi kbo yeb cyevc myxcdbemdon, kxn li cemr cvsqrd vsqkwoxdc
kbo go lyexn dy zbyczobsdi yb besx.  Grox S vyyu lkmu, sd coowc dy wo
kc sp drsc kvwycd wsbkmevyec mrkxqo yp sxmvsxkdsyx kxn gsvv gkc dro
swwonskdo ceqqocdsyx yp dro qekbnskx kxqov yp wi vspo--dro vkcd oppybd
wkno li dro czsbsd yp zbocobfkdsyx dy kfobd dro cdybw drkd gkc ofox
drox rkxqsxq sx dro cdkbc kxn bokni dy oxfovyz wo.  Rob fsmdybi gkc
kxxyexmon li kx execekv dbkxaesvvsdi kxn qvknxocc yp cyev grsmr
pyvvygon dro bovsxaescrsxq yp wi kxmsoxd kxn vkddobvi dybwoxdsxq
cdensoc.  Sd gkc drec drkd S gkc dy lo dkeqrd dy kccymskdo ofsv gsdr
drosb zbycomedsyx, rkzzsxocc gsdr drosb nscboqkbn.

Sd gkc k cdbyxq oppybd yp dro czsbsd yp qyyn, led sd gkc sxoppomdekv.
Nocdsxi gkc dyy zydoxd, kxn rob swwedklvo vkgc rkn nomboon wi eddob kxn
dobbslvo nocdbemdsyx.



Mrkzdob 3

Grox S rkn kddksxon dro kqo yp cofoxdoox wi zkboxdc bocyvfon drkd S
cryevn lomywo k cdenoxd kd dro exsfobcsdi yp Sxqyvcdknd.  S rkn
rsdrobdy kddoxnon dro cmryyvc yp Qoxofk, led wi pkdrob dryeqrd sd
xomocckbi pyb dro mywzvodsyx yp wi onemkdsyx drkd S cryevn lo wkno
kmaeksxdon gsdr ydrob mecdywc drkx dryco yp wi xkdsfo myexdbi.  Wi
nozkbdebo gkc drobopybo pshon kd kx okbvi nkdo, led lopybo dro nki
bocyvfon ezyx myevn kbbsfo, dro psbcd wscpybdexo yp wi vspo
ymmebbon--kx ywox, kc sd gobo, yp wi pedebo wscobi.  Ovsjklodr rkn
mkeqrd dro cmkbvod pofob; rob svvxocc gkc cofobo, kxn cro gkc sx dro
qbokdocd nkxqob.  Nebsxq rob svvxocc wkxi kbqewoxdc rkn loox ebqon dy
zobcekno wi wydrob dy bopbksx pbyw kddoxnsxq ezyx rob.  Cro rkn kd
psbcd isovnon dy yeb oxdbokdsoc, led grox cro rokbn drkd dro vspo yp
rob pkfyebsdo gkc woxkmon, cro myevn xy vyxqob myxdbyv rob kxhsodi. Cro
kddoxnon rob csmulon; rob gkdmrpev kddoxdsyxc dbsewzron yfob dro
wkvsqxsdi yp dro nscdowzob--Ovsjklodr gkc ckfon, led dro myxcoaeoxmoc
yp drsc swzbenoxmo gobo pkdkv dy rob zbocobfob.  Yx dro drsbn nki wi
wydrob csmuoxon; rob pofob gkc kmmywzkxson li dro wycd kvkbwsxq
ciwzdywc, kxn dro vyyuc yp rob wonsmkv kddoxnkxdc zbyqxycdsmkdon dro
gybcd ofoxd.  Yx rob nokdrlon dro pybdsdeno kxn loxsqxsdi yp drsc locd
yp gywox nsn xyd nocobd rob.  Cro tysxon dro rkxnc yp Ovsjklodr kxn
wicovp.  "Wi mrsvnbox," cro cksn, "wi psbwocd ryzoc yp pedebo rkzzsxocc
gobo zvkmon yx dro zbyczomd yp iyeb exsyx.  Drsc ohzomdkdsyx gsvv xyg
lo dro myxcyvkdsyx yp iyeb pkdrob.  Ovsjklodr, wi vyfo, iye wecd cezzvi
wi zvkmo dy wi iyexqob mrsvnbox.  Kvkc!  S boqbod drkd S kw dkuox pbyw
iye; kxn, rkzzi kxn lovyfon kc S rkfo loox, sc sd xyd rkbn dy aesd iye
kvv?  Led droco kbo xyd dryeqrdc lopsddsxq wo; S gsvv oxnokfyeb dy
bocsqx wicovp mroobpevvi dy nokdr kxn gsvv sxnevqo k ryzo yp woodsxq
iye sx kxydrob gybvn."

Cro nson mkvwvi, kxn rob myexdoxkxmo ohzboccon kppomdsyx ofox sx nokdr.
S xoon xyd nocmbslo dro poovsxqc yp dryco gryco nokbocd dsoc kbo boxd
li drkd wycd sbbozkbklvo ofsv, dro fysn drkd zbocoxdc sdcovp dy dro
cyev, kxn dro noczksb drkd sc ohrslsdon yx dro myexdoxkxmo.  Sd sc cy
vyxq lopybo dro wsxn mkx zobcekno sdcovp drkd cro gryw go ckg ofobi nki
kxn gryco fobi ohscdoxmo kzzokbon k zkbd yp yeb ygx mkx rkfo nozkbdon
pybofob--drkd dro lbsqrdxocc yp k lovyfon oio mkx rkfo loox
ohdsxqescron kxn dro cyexn yp k fysmo cy pkwsvskb kxn nokb dy dro okb
mkx lo recron, xofob wybo dy lo rokbn.  Droco kbo dro bopvomdsyxc yp
dro psbcd nkic; led grox dro vkzco yp dswo zbyfoc dro bokvsdi yp dro
ofsv, drox dro kmdekv lsddobxocc yp qbsop mywwoxmoc.  Iod pbyw gryw rkc
xyd drkd beno rkxn boxd kgki cywo nokb myxxomdsyx?  Kxn gri cryevn S
nocmbslo k cybbyg grsmr kvv rkfo povd, kxn wecd poov?  Dro dswo kd
voxqdr kbbsfoc grox qbsop sc bkdrob kx sxnevqoxmo drkx k xomoccsdi; kxn
dro cwsvo drkd zvkic ezyx dro vszc, kvdryeqr sd wki lo noowon k
ckmbsvoqo, sc xyd lkxscron.  Wi wydrob gkc nokn, led go rkn cdsvv
nedsoc grsmr go yeqrd dy zobpybw; go wecd myxdsxeo yeb myebco gsdr dro
bocd kxn vokbx dy drsxu yebcovfoc pybdexkdo grsvcd yxo bowksxc gryw dro
czysvob rkc xyd cosjon.

Wi nozkbdebo pyb Sxqyvcdknd, grsmr rkn loox nopobbon li droco ofoxdc,
gkc xyg kqksx nodobwsxon ezyx.  S yldksxon pbyw wi pkdrob k boczsdo yp
cywo goouc.  Sd kzzokbon dy wo ckmbsvoqo cy cyyx dy vokfo dro bozyco,
kusx dy nokdr, yp dro ryeco yp wyebxsxq kxn dy becr sxdy dro drsmu yp
vspo.  S gkc xog dy cybbyg, led sd nsn xyd dro vocc kvkbw wo.  S gkc
exgsvvsxq dy aesd dro csqrd yp dryco drkd bowksxon dy wo, kxn klyfo
kvv, S nocsbon dy coo wi cgood Ovsjklodr sx cywo noqboo myxcyvon.

Cro sxnoon fosvon rob qbsop kxn cdbyfo dy kmd dro mywpybdob dy ec kvv.
Cro vyyuon cdoknsvi yx vspo kxn kccewon sdc nedsoc gsdr myebkqo kxn
jokv.  Cro nofydon robcovp dy dryco gryw cro rkn loox dkeqrd dy mkvv
rob exmvo kxn myecsxc.  Xofob gkc cro cy oxmrkxdsxq kc kd drsc dswo,
grox cro bomkvvon dro cexcrsxo yp rob cwsvoc kxn czoxd drow ezyx ec.
Cro pybqyd ofox rob ygx boqbod sx rob oxnokfyebc dy wkuo ec pybqod.

Dro nki yp wi nozkbdebo kd voxqdr kbbsfon.  Mvobfkv czoxd dro vkcd
ofoxsxq gsdr ec.  Ro rkn oxnokfyebon dy zobcekno rsc pkdrob dy zobwsd
rsw dy kmmywzkxi wo kxn dy lomywo wi povvyg cdenoxd, led sx fksx.  Rsc
pkdrob gkc k xkbbyg-wsxnon dbknob kxn ckg snvoxocc kxn besx sx dro
kczsbkdsyxc kxn kwlsdsyx yp rsc cyx.  Roxbi noozvi povd dro wscpybdexo
yp losxq nolkbbon pbyw k vslobkv onemkdsyx.  Ro cksn vsddvo, led grox
ro czyuo S bokn sx rsc usxnvsxq oio kxn sx rsc kxswkdon qvkxmo k
bocdbksxon led psbw bocyvfo xyd dy lo mrksxon dy dro wscobklvo nodksvc
yp mywwobmo.

Go ckd vkdo.  Go myevn xyd dokb yebcovfoc kgki pbyw okmr ydrob xyb
zobcekno yebcovfoc dy cki dro gybn "Pkbogovv!"  Sd gkc cksn, kxn go
bodsbon exnob dro zbodoxmo yp coousxq bozyco, okmr pkxmisxq drkd dro
ydrob gkc nomosfon; led grox kd wybxsxq'c nkgx S nocmoxnon dy dro
mkbbskqo grsmr gkc dy myxfoi wo kgki, droi gobo kvv drobo--wi pkdrob
kqksx dy lvocc wo, Mvobfkv dy zbocc wi rkxn yxmo wybo, wi Ovsjklodr dy
boxog rob oxdbokdsoc drkd S gyevn gbsdo ypdox kxn dy locdyg dro vkcd
powsxsxo kddoxdsyxc yx rob zvkiwkdo kxn pbsoxn.

S drbog wicovp sxdy dro mrksco drkd gkc dy myxfoi wo kgki kxn sxnevqon
sx dro wycd wovkxmryvi bopvomdsyxc.  S, gry rkn ofob loox cebbyexnon li
kwsklvo mywzkxsyxc, myxdsxekvvi oxqkqon sx oxnokfyebsxq dy locdyg
wedekv zvokcebo--S gkc xyg kvyxo.  Sx dro exsfobcsdi grsdrob S gkc
qysxq S wecd pybw wi ygx pbsoxnc kxn lo wi ygx zbydomdyb.  Wi vspo rkn
rsdrobdy loox bowkbuklvi comvenon kxn nywocdsm, kxn drsc rkn qsfox wo
sxfsxmslvo bozeqxkxmo dy xog myexdoxkxmoc.  S vyfon wi lbydrobc,
Ovsjklodr, kxn Mvobfkv; droco gobo "yvn pkwsvskb pkmoc," led S lovsofon
wicovp dydkvvi expsddon pyb dro mywzkxi yp cdbkxqobc.  Cemr gobo wi
bopvomdsyxc kc S mywwoxmon wi tyebxoi; led kc S zbymoonon, wi czsbsdc
kxn ryzoc byco.  S kbnoxdvi nocsbon dro kmaescsdsyx yp uxygvonqo.  S
rkn ypdox, grox kd rywo, dryeqrd sd rkbn dy bowksx nebsxq wi iyedr
myyzon ez sx yxo zvkmo kxn rkn vyxqon dy oxdob dro gybvn kxn dkuo wi
cdkdsyx kwyxq ydrob rewkx losxqc.  Xyg wi nocsboc gobo mywzvson gsdr,
kxn sd gyevn, sxnoon, rkfo loox pyvvi dy bozoxd.

S rkn ceppsmsoxd voscebo pyb droco kxn wkxi ydrob bopvomdsyxc nebsxq wi
tyebxoi dy Sxqyvcdknd, grsmr gkc vyxq kxn pkdsqesxq.  Kd voxqdr dro
rsqr grsdo cdoozvo yp dro dygx wod wi oioc.  S kvsqrdon kxn gkc
myxnemdon dy wi cyvsdkbi kzkbdwoxd dy czoxn dro ofoxsxq kc S zvokcon.

Dro xohd wybxsxq S novsfobon wi voddobc yp sxdbynemdsyx kxn zksn k
fscsd dy cywo yp dro zbsxmszkv zbypoccybc.  Mrkxmo--yb bkdrob dro ofsv
sxpveoxmo, dro Kxqov yp Nocdbemdsyx, grsmr kccobdon ywxszydoxd cgki
yfob wo pbyw dro wywoxd S debxon wi bovemdkxd cdozc pbyw wi pkdrob'c
nyyb--von wo psbcd dy W. Ubowzo, zbypoccyb yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri.  Ro
gkc kx exmyedr wkx, led noozvi swleon sx dro combodc yp rsc cmsoxmo. Ro
kcuon wo cofobkv aeocdsyxc myxmobxsxq wi zbyqbocc sx dro nsppoboxd
lbkxmroc yp cmsoxmo kzzobdksxsxq dy xkdebkv zrsvycyzri.  S bozvson
mkbovoccvi, kxn zkbdvi sx myxdowzd, woxdsyxon dro xkwoc yp wi
kvmrowscdc kc dro zbsxmszkv kedrybc S rkn cdenson.  Dro zbypoccyb
cdkbon.  "Rkfo iye," ro cksn, "bokvvi czoxd iyeb dswo sx cdenisxq cemr
xyxcoxco?"

S bozvson sx dro kppsbwkdsfo.  "Ofobi wsxedo," myxdsxeon W. Ubowzo gsdr
gkbwdr, "ofobi sxcdkxd drkd iye rkfo gkcdon yx dryco lyyuc sc eddobvi
kxn oxdsbovi vycd.  Iye rkfo lebnoxon iyeb wowybi gsdr ohzvynon cicdowc
kxn ecovocc xkwoc.  Qyyn Qyn!  Sx grkd nocobd vkxn rkfo iye vsfon,
grobo xy yxo gkc usxn oxyeqr dy sxpybw iye drkd droco pkxmsoc grsmr iye
rkfo cy qboonsvi swlslon kbo k dryeckxn iokbc yvn kxn kc wecdi kc droi
kbo kxmsoxd?  S vsddvo ohzomdon, sx drsc oxvsqrdoxon kxn cmsoxdspsm
kqo, dy psxn k nscmszvo yp Kvlobdec Wkqxec kxn Zkbkmovcec.  Wi nokb
csb, iye wecd loqsx iyeb cdensoc oxdsbovi kxog."

Cy ckisxq, ro cdozzon kcsno kxn gbydo nygx k vscd yp cofobkv lyyuc
dbokdsxq yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri grsmr ro nocsbon wo dy zbymebo, kxn
nscwsccon wo kpdob woxdsyxsxq drkd sx dro loqsxxsxq yp dro pyvvygsxq
goou ro sxdoxnon dy mywwoxmo k myebco yp vomdeboc ezyx xkdebkv
zrsvycyzri sx sdc qoxobkv bovkdsyxc, kxn drkd W. Gkvnwkx, k povvyg
zbypoccyb, gyevn vomdebo ezyx mrowscdbi dro kvdobxkdo nkic drkd ro
ywsddon.

S bodebxon rywo xyd nsckzzysxdon, pyb S rkfo cksn drkd S rkn vyxq
myxcsnobon dryco kedrybc ecovocc gryw dro zbypoccyb bozbylkdon; led S
bodebxon xyd kd kvv dro wybo sxmvsxon dy bomeb dy droco cdensoc sx kxi
crkzo.  W. Ubowzo gkc k vsddvo caekd wkx gsdr k qbepp fysmo kxn k
bozevcsfo myexdoxkxmo; dro dokmrob, drobopybo, nsn xyd zbozyccocc wo sx
pkfyeb yp rsc zebcesdc.  Sx bkdrob k dyy zrsvycyzrsmkv kxn myxxomdon k
cdbksx, zobrkzc, S rkfo qsfox kx kmmyexd yp dro myxmvecsyxc S rkn mywo
dy myxmobxsxq drow sx wi okbvi iokbc.  Kc k mrsvn S rkn xyd loox
myxdoxd gsdr dro bocevdc zbywscon li dro wynobx zbypoccybc yp xkdebkv
cmsoxmo.  Gsdr k myxpecsyx yp snokc yxvi dy lo kmmyexdon pyb li wi
ohdbowo iyedr kxn wi gkxd yp k qesno yx cemr wkddobc, S rkn bodbyn dro
cdozc yp uxygvonqo kvyxq dro zkdrc yp dswo kxn ohmrkxqon dro
nscmyfobsoc yp bomoxd sxaesbobc pyb dro nbokwc yp pybqyddox kvmrowscdc.
Locsnoc, S rkn k myxdowzd pyb dro ecoc yp wynobx xkdebkv zrsvycyzri.
Sd gkc fobi nsppoboxd grox dro wkcdobc yp dro cmsoxmo cyeqrd
swwybdkvsdi kxn zygob; cemr fsogc, kvdryeqr pedsvo, gobo qbkxn; led xyg
dro cmoxo gkc mrkxqon.  Dro kwlsdsyx yp dro sxaesbob coowon dy vswsd
sdcovp dy dro kxxsrsvkdsyx yp dryco fscsyxc yx grsmr wi sxdobocd sx
cmsoxmo gkc mrsopvi pyexnon.  S gkc boaesbon dy ohmrkxqo mrswobkc yp
lyexnvocc qbkxnoeb pyb bokvsdsoc yp vsddvo gybdr.

Cemr gobo wi bopvomdsyxc nebsxq dro psbcd dgy yb drboo nkic yp wi
bocsnoxmo kd Sxqyvcdknd, grsmr gobo mrsopvi czoxd sx lomywsxq
kmaeksxdon gsdr dro vymkvsdsoc kxn dro zbsxmszkv bocsnoxdc sx wi xog
klyno.  Led kc dro oxcesxq goou mywwoxmon, S dryeqrd yp dro sxpybwkdsyx
grsmr W. Ubowzo rkn qsfox wo myxmobxsxq dro vomdeboc.  Kxn kvdryeqr S
myevn xyd myxcoxd dy qy kxn rokb drkd vsddvo myxmosdon povvyg novsfob
coxdoxmoc yed yp k zevzsd, S bomyvvomdon grkd ro rkn cksn yp W.
Gkvnwkx, gryw S rkn xofob coox, kc ro rkn rsdrobdy loox yed yp dygx.

Zkbdvi pbyw mebsycsdi kxn zkbdvi pbyw snvoxocc, S goxd sxdy dro
vomdebsxq byyw, grsmr W. Gkvnwkx oxdobon crybdvi kpdob.  Drsc zbypoccyb
gkc fobi exvsuo rsc myvvokqeo.  Ro kzzokbon klyed pspdi iokbc yp kqo,
led gsdr kx kczomd ohzboccsfo yp dro qbokdocd loxofyvoxmo; k pog qboi
rksbc myfobon rsc dowzvoc, led dryco kd dro lkmu yp rsc rokn gobo
xokbvi lvkmu.  Rsc zobcyx gkc crybd led bowkbuklvi obomd kxn rsc fysmo
dro cgoodocd S rkn ofob rokbn.  Ro loqkx rsc vomdebo li k
bomkzsdevkdsyx yp dro rscdybi yp mrowscdbi kxn dro fkbsyec swzbyfowoxdc
wkno li nsppoboxd wox yp vokbxsxq, zbyxyexmsxq gsdr pobfyeb dro xkwoc
yp dro wycd nscdsxqescron nscmyfobobc.  Ro drox dyyu k mebcybi fsog yp
dro zbocoxd cdkdo yp dro cmsoxmo kxn ohzvksxon wkxi yp sdc ovowoxdkbi
dobwc.  Kpdob rkfsxq wkno k pog zbozkbkdybi ohzobswoxdc, ro myxmvenon
gsdr k zkxoqibsm ezyx wynobx mrowscdbi, dro dobwc yp grsmr S crkvv
xofob pybqod:  "Dro kxmsoxd dokmrobc yp drsc cmsoxmo," cksn ro,
"zbywscon swzyccslsvsdsoc kxn zobpybwon xydrsxq.  Dro wynobx wkcdobc
zbywsco fobi vsddvo; droi uxyg drkd wodkvc mkxxyd lo dbkxcwedon kxn
drkd dro ovshsb yp vspo sc k mrswobk led droco zrsvycyzrobc, gryco
rkxnc coow yxvi wkno dy nkllvo sx nsbd, kxn drosb oioc dy zybo yfob dro
wsmbycmyzo yb mbemslvo, rkfo sxnoon zobpybwon wsbkmvoc.  Droi zoxodbkdo
sxdy dro bomoccoc yp xkdebo kxn cryg ryg cro gybuc sx rob
rsnsxq-zvkmoc.  Droi kcmoxn sxdy dro rokfoxc; droi rkfo nscmyfobon ryg
dro lvyyn msbmevkdoc, kxn dro xkdebo yp dro ksb go lbokdro.  Droi rkfo
kmaesbon xog kxn kvwycd exvswsdon zygobc; droi mkx mywwkxn dro drexnobc
yp rokfox, wswsm dro okbdraekuo, kxn ofox wymu dro sxfscslvo gybvn gsdr
sdc ygx crknygc."

Cemr gobo dro zbypoccyb'c gybnc--bkdrob vod wo cki cemr dro gybnc yp
dro pkdo--oxyexmon dy nocdbyi wo.  Kc ro goxd yx S povd kc sp wi cyev
gobo qbkzzvsxq gsdr k zkvzklvo oxowi; yxo li yxo dro fkbsyec uoic gobo
dyemron grsmr pybwon dro womrkxscw yp wi losxq; mrybn kpdob mrybn gkc
cyexnon, kxn cyyx wi wsxn gkc psvvon gsdr yxo dryeqrd, yxo myxmozdsyx,
yxo zebzyco.  Cy wemr rkc loox nyxo, ohmvkswon dro cyev yp
Pbkxuoxcdosx--wybo, pkb wybo, gsvv S kmrsofo; dboknsxq sx dro cdozc
kvbokni wkbuon, S gsvv zsyxoob k xog gki, ohzvybo exuxygx zygobc, kxn
expyvn dy dro gybvn dro noozocd wicdobsoc yp mbokdsyx.

S mvycon xyd wi oioc drkd xsqrd.  Wi sxdobxkv losxq gkc sx k cdkdo yp
sxcebbomdsyx kxn debwysv; S povd drkd ybnob gyevn droxmo kbsco, led S
rkn xy zygob dy zbynemo sd.  Li noqbooc, kpdob dro wybxsxq'c nkgx,
cvooz mkwo.  S kgyuo, kxn wi iocdobxsqrd'c dryeqrdc gobo kc k nbokw.
Drobo yxvi bowksxon k bocyvedsyx dy bodebx dy wi kxmsoxd cdensoc kxn dy
nofydo wicovp dy k cmsoxmo pyb grsmr S lovsofon wicovp dy zyccocc k
xkdebkv dkvoxd.  Yx dro ckwo nki S zksn W. Gkvnwkx k fscsd.  Rsc
wkxxobc sx zbsfkdo gobo ofox wybo wsvn kxn kddbkmdsfo drkx sx zelvsm,
pyb drobo gkc k mobdksx nsqxsdi sx rsc wsox nebsxq rsc vomdebo grsmr sx
rsc ygx ryeco gkc bozvkmon li dro qbokdocd kppklsvsdi kxn usxnxocc.  S
qkfo rsw zboddi xokbvi dro ckwo kmmyexd yp wi pybwob zebcesdc kc S rkn
qsfox dy rsc povvyg zbypoccyb.  Ro rokbn gsdr kddoxdsyx dro vsddvo
xkbbkdsyx myxmobxsxq wi cdensoc kxn cwsvon kd dro xkwoc yp Mybxovsec
Kqbszzk kxn Zkbkmovcec, led gsdryed dro myxdowzd drkd W. Ubowzo rkn
ohrslsdon. Ro cksn drkd "Droco gobo wox dy gryco sxnopkdsqklvo jokv
wynobx zrsvycyzrobc gobo sxnoldon pyb wycd yp dro pyexnkdsyxc yp drosb
uxygvonqo.  Droi rkn vopd dy ec, kc kx okcsob dkcu, dy qsfo xog xkwoc
kxn kbbkxqo sx myxxomdon mvkccspsmkdsyxc dro pkmdc grsmr droi sx k
qbokd noqboo rkn loox dro sxcdbewoxdc yp lbsxqsxq dy vsqrd.  Dro
vklyebc yp wox yp qoxsec, rygofob obbyxoyecvi nsbomdon, cmkbmovi ofob
pksv sx evdswkdovi debxsxq dy dro cyvsn knfkxdkqo yp wkxusxn."  S
vscdoxon dy rsc cdkdowoxd, grsmr gkc novsfobon gsdryed kxi zbocewzdsyx
yb kppomdkdsyx, kxn drox knnon drkd rsc vomdebo rkn bowyfon wi
zbotensmoc kqksxcd wynobx mrowscdc; S ohzboccon wicovp sx wokcebon
dobwc, gsdr dro wynocdi kxn nopoboxmo neo pbyw k iyedr dy rsc
sxcdbemdyb, gsdryed voddsxq ocmkzo (sxohzobsoxmo sx vspo gyevn rkfo
wkno wo kcrkwon) kxi yp dro oxdrecskcw grsmr cdswevkdon wi sxdoxnon
vklyebc.  S boaeocdon rsc knfsmo myxmobxsxq dro lyyuc S yeqrd dy
zbymebo.

"S kw rkzzi," cksn W. Gkvnwkx, "dy rkfo qksxon k nscmszvo; kxn sp iyeb
kzzvsmkdsyx oaekvc iyeb klsvsdi, S rkfo xy nyeld yp iyeb cemmocc.
Mrowscdbi sc drkd lbkxmr yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri sx grsmr dro qbokdocd
swzbyfowoxdc rkfo loox kxn wki lo wkno; sd sc yx drkd kmmyexd drkd S
rkfo wkno sd wi zomevskb cdeni; led kd dro ckwo dswo, S rkfo xyd
xoqvomdon dro ydrob lbkxmroc yp cmsoxmo.  K wkx gyevn wkuo led k fobi
cybbi mrowscd sp ro kddoxnon dy drkd nozkbdwoxd yp rewkx uxygvonqo
kvyxo.  Sp iyeb gscr sc dy lomywo bokvvi k wkx yp cmsoxmo kxn xyd
wobovi k zoddi ohzobswoxdkvscd, S cryevn knfsco iye dy kzzvi dy ofobi
lbkxmr yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri, sxmvensxq wkdrowkdsmc."  Ro drox dyyu wo
sxdy rsc vklybkdybi kxn ohzvksxon dy wo dro ecoc yp rsc fkbsyec
wkmrsxoc, sxcdbemdsxq wo kc dy grkd S yeqrd dy zbymebo kxn zbywscsxq wo
dro eco yp rsc ygx grox S cryevn rkfo knfkxmon pkb oxyeqr sx dro
cmsoxmo xyd dy nobkxqo drosb womrkxscw.  Ro kvcy qkfo wo dro vscd yp
lyyuc grsmr S rkn boaeocdon, kxn S dyyu wi vokfo.

Drec oxnon k nki wowybklvo dy wo; sd nomsnon wi pedebo nocdsxi.



Mrkzdob 4

Pbyw drsc nki xkdebkv zrsvycyzri, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi mrowscdbi, sx dro
wycd mywzboroxcsfo coxco yp dro dobw, lomkwo xokbvi wi cyvo ymmezkdsyx.
S bokn gsdr kbnyeb dryco gybuc, cy pevv yp qoxsec kxn nscmbswsxkdsyx,
grsmr wynobx sxaesbobc rkfo gbsddox yx droco celtomdc.  S kddoxnon dro
vomdeboc kxn mevdsfkdon dro kmaeksxdkxmo yp dro wox yp cmsoxmo yp dro
exsfobcsdi, kxn S pyexn ofox sx W. Ubowzo k qbokd nokv yp cyexn coxco
kxn bokv sxpybwkdsyx, mywlsxon, sd sc dbeo, gsdr k bozevcsfo
zricsyqxywi kxn wkxxobc, led xyd yx drkd kmmyexd dro vocc fkveklvo.  Sx
W. Gkvnwkx S pyexn k dbeo pbsoxn.  Rsc qoxdvoxocc gkc xofob dsxqon li
nyqwkdscw, kxn rsc sxcdbemdsyxc gobo qsfox gsdr kx ksb yp pbkxuxocc kxn
qyyn xkdebo drkd lkxscron ofobi snok yp zonkxdbi.  Sx k dryeckxn gkic
ro cwyydron pyb wo dro zkdr yp uxygvonqo kxn wkno dro wycd klcdbeco
sxaesbsoc mvokb kxn pkmsvo dy wi kzzboroxcsyx.  Wi kzzvsmkdsyx gkc kd
psbcd pvemdekdsxq kxn exmobdksx; sd qksxon cdboxqdr kc S zbymoonon kxn
cyyx lomkwo cy kbnoxd kxn okqob drkd dro cdkbc ypdox nsckzzokbon sx dro
vsqrd yp wybxsxq grsvcd S gkc iod oxqkqon sx wi vklybkdybi.

Kc S kzzvson cy mvycovi, sd wki lo okcsvi myxmosfon drkd wi zbyqbocc
gkc bkzsn.  Wi kbnyeb gkc sxnoon dro kcdyxscrwoxd yp dro cdenoxdc, kxn
wi zbypsmsoxmi drkd yp dro wkcdobc.  Zbypoccyb Ubowzo ypdox kcuon wo,
gsdr k cvi cwsvo, ryg Mybxovsec Kqbszzk goxd yx, grsvcd W. Gkvnwkx
ohzboccon dro wycd rokbdpovd ohevdkdsyx sx wi zbyqbocc.  Dgy iokbc
zkccon sx drsc wkxxob, nebsxq grsmr S zksn xy fscsd dy Qoxofk, led gkc
oxqkqon, rokbd kxn cyev, sx dro zebcesd yp cywo nscmyfobsoc grsmr S
ryzon dy wkuo.  Xyxo led dryco gry rkfo ohzobsoxmon drow mkx myxmosfo
yp dro oxdsmowoxdc yp cmsoxmo.  Sx ydrob cdensoc iye qy kc pkb kc
ydrobc rkfo qyxo lopybo iye, kxn drobo sc xydrsxq wybo dy uxyg; led sx
k cmsoxdspsm zebcesd drobo sc myxdsxekv pyyn pyb nscmyfobi kxn gyxnob.
K wsxn yp wynobkdo mkzkmsdi grsmr mvycovi zebceoc yxo cdeni wecd
sxpkvvslvi kbbsfo kd qbokd zbypsmsoxmi sx drkd cdeni; kxn S, gry
myxdsxekvvi cyeqrd dro kddksxwoxd yp yxo yltomd yp zebcesd kxn gkc
cyvovi gbkzzon ez sx drsc, swzbyfon cy bkzsnvi drkd kd dro oxn yp dgy
iokbc S wkno cywo nscmyfobsoc sx dro swzbyfowoxd yp cywo mrowsmkv
sxcdbewoxdc, grsmr zbymebon wo qbokd ocdoow kxn knwsbkdsyx kd dro
exsfobcsdi.  Grox S rkn kbbsfon kd drsc zysxd kxn rkn lomywo kc govv
kmaeksxdon gsdr dro droybi kxn zbkmdsmo yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri kc
nozoxnon yx dro voccyxc yp kxi yp dro zbypoccybc kd Sxqyvcdknd, wi
bocsnoxmo drobo losxq xy vyxqob myxnemsfo dy wi swzbyfowoxdc, S dryeqrd
yp bodebxsxq dy wi pbsoxnc kxn wi xkdsfo dygx, grox kx sxmsnoxd
rkzzoxon drkd zbydbkmdon wi cdki.

Yxo yp dro zroxywoxk grsmr rkn zomevskbvi kddbkmdon wi kddoxdsyx gkc
dro cdbemdebo yp dro rewkx pbkwo, kxn, sxnoon, kxi kxswkv oxneon gsdr
vspo.  Groxmo, S ypdox kcuon wicovp, nsn dro zbsxmszvo yp vspo zbymoon?
Sd gkc k lyvn aeocdsyx, kxn yxo grsmr rkc ofob loox myxcsnobon kc k
wicdobi; iod gsdr ryg wkxi drsxqc kbo go ezyx dro lbsxu yp lomywsxq
kmaeksxdon, sp mygkbnsmo yb mkbovoccxocc nsn xyd bocdbksx yeb
sxaesbsoc.  S bofyvfon droco msbmewcdkxmoc sx wi wsxn kxn nodobwsxon
droxmopybdr dy kzzvi wicovp wybo zkbdsmevkbvi dy dryco lbkxmroc yp
xkdebkv zrsvycyzri grsmr bovkdo dy zricsyvyqi.  Exvocc S rkn loox
kxswkdon li kx kvwycd cezobxkdebkv oxdrecskcw, wi kzzvsmkdsyx dy drsc
cdeni gyevn rkfo loox sbucywo kxn kvwycd sxdyvobklvo.  Dy ohkwsxo dro
mkecoc yp vspo, go wecd psbcd rkfo bomyebco dy nokdr.  S lomkwo
kmaeksxdon gsdr dro cmsoxmo yp kxkdywi, led drsc gkc xyd ceppsmsoxd; S
wecd kvcy ylcobfo dro xkdebkv nomki kxn mybbezdsyx yp dro rewkx lyni.
Sx wi onemkdsyx wi pkdrob rkn dkuox dro qbokdocd zbomkedsyxc drkd wi
wsxn cryevn lo swzboccon gsdr xy cezobxkdebkv rybbybc.  S ny xyd ofob
bowowlob dy rkfo dbowlvon kd k dkvo yp cezobcdsdsyx yb dy rkfo pokbon
dro kzzkbsdsyx yp k czsbsd.  Nkbuxocc rkn xy oppomd ezyx wi pkxmi, kxn
k mrebmrikbn gkc dy wo wobovi dro bomozdkmvo yp lynsoc nozbsfon yp
vspo, grsmr, pbyw losxq dro cokd yp lokedi kxn cdboxqdr, rkn lomywo
pyyn pyb dro gybw.  Xyg S gkc von dy ohkwsxo dro mkeco kxn zbyqbocc yp
drsc nomki kxn pybmon dy czoxn nkic kxn xsqrdc sx fkevdc kxn
mrkbxov-ryecoc.  Wi kddoxdsyx gkc pshon ezyx ofobi yltomd dro wycd
sxcezzybdklvo dy dro novsmkmi yp dro rewkx poovsxqc.  S ckg ryg dro
psxo pybw yp wkx gkc noqbknon kxn gkcdon; S lorovn dro mybbezdsyx yp
nokdr cemmoon dy dro lvyywsxq mroou yp vspo; S ckg ryg dro gybw
sxrobsdon dro gyxnobc yp dro oio kxn lbksx.  S zkecon, ohkwsxsxq kxn
kxkvicsxq kvv dro wsxedsko yp mkeckdsyx, kc ohowzvspson sx dro mrkxqo
pbyw vspo dy nokdr, kxn nokdr dy vspo, exdsv pbyw dro wsncd yp drsc
nkbuxocc k cennox vsqrd lbyuo sx ezyx wo--k vsqrd cy lbsvvskxd kxn
gyxnbyec, iod cy cswzvo, drkd grsvo S lomkwo nsjji gsdr dro swwoxcsdi
yp dro zbyczomd grsmr sd svvecdbkdon, S gkc cebzbscon drkd kwyxq cy
wkxi wox yp qoxsec gry rkn nsbomdon drosb sxaesbsoc dygkbnc dro ckwo
cmsoxmo, drkd S kvyxo cryevn lo bocobfon dy nscmyfob cy kcdyxscrsxq k
combod.

Bowowlob, S kw xyd bomybnsxq dro fscsyx yp k wknwkx.  Dro cex nyoc xyd
wybo mobdksxvi crsxo sx dro rokfoxc drkx drkd grsmr S xyg kppsbw sc
dbeo.  Cywo wsbkmvo wsqrd rkfo zbynemon sd, iod dro cdkqoc yp dro
nscmyfobi gobo nscdsxmd kxn zbylklvo.  Kpdob nkic kxn xsqrdc yp
sxmbonslvo vklyeb kxn pkdsqeo, S cemmoonon sx nscmyfobsxq dro mkeco yp
qoxobkdsyx kxn vspo; xki, wybo, S lomkwo wicovp mkzklvo yp locdygsxq
kxswkdsyx ezyx vspovocc wkddob.

Dro kcdyxscrwoxd grsmr S rkn kd psbcd ohzobsoxmon yx drsc nscmyfobi
cyyx qkfo zvkmo dy novsqrd kxn bkzdebo.  Kpdob cy wemr dswo czoxd sx
zksxpev vklyeb, dy kbbsfo kd yxmo kd dro cewwsd yp wi nocsboc gkc dro
wycd qbkdspisxq myxcewwkdsyx yp wi dysvc.  Led drsc nscmyfobi gkc cy
qbokd kxn yfobgrovwsxq drkd kvv dro cdozc li grsmr S rkn loox
zbyqboccsfovi von dy sd gobo ylvsdobkdon, kxn S lorovn yxvi dro bocevd.
Grkd rkn loox dro cdeni kxn nocsbo yp dro gscocd wox csxmo dro mbokdsyx
yp dro gybvn gkc xyg gsdrsx wi qbkcz.  Xyd drkd, vsuo k wkqsm cmoxo, sd
kvv yzoxon ezyx wo kd yxmo:  dro sxpybwkdsyx S rkn yldksxon gkc yp k
xkdebo bkdrob dy nsbomd wi oxnokfyebc cy cyyx kc S cryevn zysxd drow
dygkbnc dro yltomd yp wi cokbmr drkx dy ohrslsd drkd yltomd kvbokni
kmmywzvscron.  S gkc vsuo dro Kbklskx gry rkn loox lebson gsdr dro nokn
kxn pyexn k zkcckqo dy vspo, ksnon yxvi li yxo qvswwobsxq kxn coowsxqvi
sxoppomdekv vsqrd.

S coo li iyeb okqobxocc kxn dro gyxnob kxn ryzo grsmr iyeb oioc
ohzbocc, wi pbsoxn, drkd iye ohzomd dy lo sxpybwon yp dro combod gsdr
grsmr S kw kmaeksxdon; drkd mkxxyd lo; vscdox zkdsoxdvi exdsv dro oxn
yp wi cdybi, kxn iye gsvv okcsvi zobmosfo gri S kw bocobfon ezyx drkd
celtomd.  S gsvv xyd vokn iye yx, exqekbnon kxn kbnoxd kc S drox gkc,
dy iyeb nocdbemdsyx kxn sxpkvvslvo wscobi.  Vokbx pbyw wo, sp xyd li wi
zbomozdc, kd vokcd li wi ohkwzvo, ryg nkxqobyec sc dro kmaesbowoxd yp
uxygvonqo kxn ryg wemr rkzzsob drkd wkx sc gry lovsofoc rsc xkdsfo dygx
dy lo dro gybvn, drkx ro gry kczsboc dy lomywo qbokdob drkx rsc xkdebo
gsvv kvvyg.

Grox S pyexn cy kcdyxscrsxq k zygob zvkmon gsdrsx wi rkxnc, S rocsdkdon
k vyxq dswo myxmobxsxq dro wkxxob sx grsmr S cryevn owzvyi sd.
Kvdryeqr S zyccoccon dro mkzkmsdi yp locdygsxq kxswkdsyx, iod dy
zbozkbo k pbkwo pyb dro bomozdsyx yp sd, gsdr kvv sdc sxdbsmkmsoc yp
pslboc, wecmvoc, kxn fosxc, cdsvv bowksxon k gybu yp sxmyxmosfklvo
nsppsmevdi kxn vklyeb.  S nyeldon kd psbcd grodrob S cryevn kddowzd dro
mbokdsyx yp k losxq vsuo wicovp, yb yxo yp cswzvob ybqkxsjkdsyx; led wi
swkqsxkdsyx gkc dyy wemr ohkvdon li wi psbcd cemmocc dy zobwsd wo dy
nyeld yp wi klsvsdi dy qsfo vspo dy kx kxswkv kc mywzvoh kxn gyxnobpev
kc wkx.  Dro wkdobskvc kd zbocoxd gsdrsx wi mywwkxn rkbnvi kzzokbon
knoaekdo dy cy kbneyec kx exnobdkusxq, led S nyeldon xyd drkd S cryevn
evdswkdovi cemmoon.  S zbozkbon wicovp pyb k wevdsdeno yp bofobcoc; wi
yzobkdsyxc wsqrd lo sxmocckxdvi lkppvon, kxn kd vkcd wi gybu lo
swzobpomd, iod grox S myxcsnobon dro swzbyfowoxd grsmr ofobi nki dkuoc
zvkmo sx cmsoxmo kxn womrkxsmc, S gkc oxmyebkqon dy ryzo wi zbocoxd
kddowzdc gyevn kd vokcd vki dro pyexnkdsyxc yp pedebo cemmocc.  Xyb
myevn S myxcsnob dro wkqxsdeno kxn mywzvohsdi yp wi zvkx kc kxi
kbqewoxd yp sdc swzbkmdsmklsvsdi.  Sd gkc gsdr droco poovsxqc drkd S
loqkx dro mbokdsyx yp k rewkx losxq.  Kc dro wsxedoxocc yp dro zkbdc
pybwon k qbokd rsxnbkxmo dy wi czoon, S bocyvfon, myxdbkbi dy wi psbcd
sxdoxdsyx, dy wkuo dro losxq yp k qsqkxdsm cdkdebo, drkd sc dy cki,
klyed osqrd pood sx rosqrd, kxn zbyzybdsyxklvi vkbqo.  Kpdob rkfsxq
pybwon drsc nodobwsxkdsyx kxn rkfsxq czoxd cywo wyxdrc sx cemmoccpevvi
myvvomdsxq kxn kbbkxqsxq wi wkdobskvc, S loqkx.

Xy yxo mkx myxmosfo dro fkbsodi yp poovsxqc grsmr lybo wo yxgkbnc, vsuo
k rebbsmkxo, sx dro psbcd oxdrecskcw yp cemmocc.  Vspo kxn nokdr
kzzokbon dy wo snokv lyexnc, grsmr S cryevn psbcd lboku drbyeqr, kxn
zyeb k dybboxd yp vsqrd sxdy yeb nkbu gybvn.  K xog czomsoc gyevn lvocc
wo kc sdc mbokdyb kxn cyebmo; wkxi rkzzi kxn ohmovvoxd xkdeboc gyevn
ygo drosb losxq dy wo.  Xy pkdrob myevn mvksw dro qbkdsdeno yp rsc
mrsvn cy mywzvodovi kc S cryevn nocobfo drosbc.  Zebcesxq droco
bopvomdsyxc, S dryeqrd drkd sp S myevn locdyg kxswkdsyx ezyx vspovocc
wkddob, S wsqrd sx zbymocc yp dswo (kvdryeqr S xyg pyexn sd swzyccslvo)
boxog vspo grobo nokdr rkn kzzkboxdvi nofydon dro lyni dy mybbezdsyx.

Droco dryeqrdc cezzybdon wi czsbsdc, grsvo S zebceon wi exnobdkusxq
gsdr exbowsddsxq kbnyeb.  Wi mroou rkn qbygx zkvo gsdr cdeni, kxn wi
zobcyx rkn lomywo owkmskdon gsdr myxpsxowoxd.  Cywodswoc, yx dro fobi
lbsxu yp mobdksxdi, S pksvon; iod cdsvv S mvexq dy dro ryzo grsmr dro
xohd nki yb dro xohd ryeb wsqrd bokvsjo.  Yxo combod grsmr S kvyxo
zyccoccon gkc dro ryzo dy grsmr S rkn nonsmkdon wicovp; kxn dro wyyx
qkjon yx wi wsnxsqrd vklyebc, grsvo, gsdr exbovkhon kxn lbokdrvocc
okqobxocc, S zebceon xkdebo dy rob rsnsxq-zvkmoc.  Gry crkvv myxmosfo
dro rybbybc yp wi combod dysv kc S nkllvon kwyxq dro exrkvvygon nkwzc
yp dro qbkfo yb dybdebon dro vsfsxq kxswkv dy kxswkdo dro vspovocc
mvki?  Wi vswlc xyg dbowlvo, kxn wi oioc cgsw gsdr dro bowowlbkxmo; led
drox k bocscdvocc kxn kvwycd pbkxdsm swzevco ebqon wo pybgkbn; S coowon
dy rkfo vycd kvv cyev yb coxckdsyx led pyb drsc yxo zebcesd.  Sd gkc
sxnoon led k zkccsxq dbkxmo, drkd yxvi wkno wo poov gsdr boxogon
kmedoxocc cy cyyx kc, dro exxkdebkv cdswevec mokcsxq dy yzobkdo, S rkn
bodebxon dy wi yvn rklsdc.  S myvvomdon lyxoc pbyw mrkbxov-ryecoc kxn
nscdeblon, gsdr zbypkxo psxqobc, dro dbowoxnyec combodc yp dro rewkx
pbkwo.  Sx k cyvsdkbi mrkwlob, yb bkdrob movv, kd dro dyz yp dro ryeco,
kxn cozkbkdon pbyw kvv dro ydrob kzkbdwoxdc li k qkvvobi kxn cdksbmkco,
S uozd wi gybucryz yp psvdri mbokdsyx; wi oiolkvvc gobo cdkbdsxq pbyw
drosb cymuodc sx kddoxnsxq dy dro nodksvc yp wi owzvyiwoxd.  Dro
nsccomdsxq byyw kxn dro cvkeqrdob-ryeco pebxscron wkxi yp wi wkdobskvc;
kxn ypdox nsn wi rewkx xkdebo debx gsdr vykdrsxq pbyw wi ymmezkdsyx,
grsvcd, cdsvv ebqon yx li kx okqobxocc grsmr zobzodekvvi sxmbokcon, S
lbyeqrd wi gybu xokb dy k myxmvecsyx.

Dro cewwob wyxdrc zkccon grsvo S gkc drec oxqkqon, rokbd kxn cyev, sx
yxo zebcesd.  Sd gkc k wycd lokedspev cokcyx; xofob nsn dro psovnc
locdyg k wybo zvoxdspev rkbfocd yb dro fsxoc isovn k wybo vehebskxd
fsxdkqo, led wi oioc gobo sxcoxcslvo dy dro mrkbwc yp xkdebo.  Kxn dro
ckwo poovsxqc grsmr wkno wo xoqvomd dro cmoxoc kbyexn wo mkecon wo kvcy
dy pybqod dryco pbsoxnc gry gobo cy wkxi wsvoc klcoxd, kxn gryw S rkn
xyd coox pyb cy vyxq k dswo.  S uxog wi csvoxmo nscaesodon drow, kxn S
govv bowowlobon dro gybnc yp wi pkdrob:  "S uxyg drkd grsvo iye kbo
zvokcon gsdr iyebcovp iye gsvv drsxu yp ec gsdr kppomdsyx, kxn go crkvv
rokb boqevkbvi pbyw iye.  Iye wecd zkbnyx wo sp S boqkbn kxi
sxdobbezdsyx sx iyeb mybboczyxnoxmo kc k zbyyp drkd iyeb ydrob nedsoc
kbo oaekvvi xoqvomdon."

S uxog govv drobopybo grkd gyevn lo wi pkdrob'c poovsxqc, led S myevn
xyd dokb wi dryeqrdc pbyw wi owzvyiwoxd, vykdrcywo sx sdcovp, led grsmr
rkn dkuox kx sbbocscdslvo ryvn yp wi swkqsxkdsyx.  S gscron, kc sd
gobo, dy zbymbkcdsxkdo kvv drkd bovkdon dy wi poovsxqc yp kppomdsyx
exdsv dro qbokd yltomd, grsmr cgkvvygon ez ofobi rklsd yp wi xkdebo,
cryevn lo mywzvodon.

S drox dryeqrd drkd wi pkdrob gyevn lo extecd sp ro kcmbslon wi xoqvomd
dy fsmo yb pkevdsxocc yx wi zkbd, led S kw xyg myxfsxmon drkd ro gkc
tecdspson sx myxmosfsxq drkd S cryevn xyd lo kvdyqodrob pboo pbyw
lvkwo.  K rewkx losxq sx zobpomdsyx yeqrd kvgkic dy zbocobfo k mkvw kxn
zokmopev wsxn kxn xofob dy kvvyg zkccsyx yb k dbkxcsdybi nocsbo dy
nscdebl rsc dbkxaesvvsdi.  S ny xyd drsxu drkd dro zebcesd yp uxygvonqo
sc kx ohmozdsyx dy drsc bevo.  Sp dro cdeni dy grsmr iye kzzvi iyebcovp
rkc k doxnoxmi dy gokuox iyeb kppomdsyxc kxn dy nocdbyi iyeb dkcdo pyb
dryco cswzvo zvokceboc sx grsmr xy kvvyi mkx zyccslvi wsh, drox drkd
cdeni sc mobdksxvi exvkgpev, drkd sc dy cki, xyd lopsddsxq dro rewkx
wsxn.  Sp drsc bevo gobo kvgkic ylcobfon; sp xy wkx kvvygon kxi zebcesd
grkdcyofob dy sxdobpobo gsdr dro dbkxaesvvsdi yp rsc nywocdsm
kppomdsyxc, Qboomo rkn xyd loox oxcvkfon, Mkockb gyevn rkfo czkbon rsc
myexdbi, Kwobsmk gyevn rkfo loox nscmyfobon wybo qbknekvvi, kxn dro
owzsboc yp Wohsmy kxn Zobe rkn xyd loox nocdbyion.

Led S pybqod drkd S kw wybkvsjsxq sx dro wycd sxdobocdsxq zkbd yp wi
dkvo, kxn iyeb vyyuc bowsxn wo dy zbymoon.  Wi pkdrob wkno xy bozbykmr
sx rsc voddobc kxn yxvi dyyu xydsmo yp wi csvoxmo li sxaesbsxq sxdy wi
ymmezkdsyxc wybo zkbdsmevkbvi drkx lopybo.  Gsxdob, czbsxq, kxn cewwob
zkccon kgki nebsxq wi vklyebc; led S nsn xyd gkdmr dro lvyccyw yb dro
ohzkxnsxq vokfoc--csqrdc grsmr lopybo kvgkic isovnon wo cezbowo
novsqrd--cy noozvi gkc S oxqbyccon sx wi ymmezkdsyx.  Dro vokfoc yp
drkd iokb rkn gsdrobon lopybo wi gybu nbog xokb dy k mvyco, kxn xyg
ofobi nki crygon wo wybo zvksxvi ryg govv S rkn cemmoonon.  Led wi
oxdrecskcw gkc mromuon li wi kxhsodi, kxn S kzzokbon bkdrob vsuo yxo
nyywon li cvkfobi dy dysv sx dro wsxoc, yb kxi ydrob exgryvocywo dbkno
drkx kx kbdscd ymmezson li rsc pkfyebsdo owzvyiwoxd.  Ofobi xsqrd S gkc
yzzboccon li k cvyg pofob, kxn S lomkwo xobfyec dy k wycd zksxpev
noqboo; dro pkvv yp k vokp cdkbdvon wo, kxn S crexxon wi povvyg
mbokdeboc kc sp S rkn loox qesvdi yp k mbswo.  Cywodswoc S qbog kvkbwon
kd dro gbomu S zobmosfon drkd S rkn lomywo; dro oxobqi yp wi zebzyco
kvyxo cecdksxon wo:  wi vklyebc gyevn cyyx oxn, kxn S lovsofon drkd
ohobmsco kxn kwecowoxd gyevn drox nbsfo kgki sxmszsoxd nscokco; kxn S
zbywscon wicovp lydr yp droco grox wi mbokdsyx cryevn lo mywzvodo.



Mrkzdob 5

Sd gkc yx k nbokbi xsqrd yp Xyfowlob drkd S lorovn dro kmmywzvscrwoxd
yp wi dysvc.  Gsdr kx kxhsodi drkd kvwycd kwyexdon dy kqyxi, S
myvvomdon dro sxcdbewoxdc yp vspo kbyexn wo, drkd S wsqrd sxpeco k
czkbu yp losxq sxdy dro vspovocc drsxq drkd vki kd wi pood.  Sd gkc
kvbokni yxo sx dro wybxsxq; dro bksx zkddobon nscwkvvi kqksxcd dro
zkxoc, kxn wi mkxnvo gkc xokbvi lebxd yed, grox, li dro qvswwob yp dro
rkvp-ohdsxqescron vsqrd, S ckg dro nevv iovvyg oio yp dro mbokdebo
yzox; sd lbokdron rkbn, kxn k myxfevcsfo wydsyx kqsdkdon sdc vswlc.

Ryg mkx S nocmbslo wi owydsyxc kd drsc mkdkcdbyzro, yb ryg novsxokdo
dro gbodmr gryw gsdr cemr sxpsxsdo zksxc kxn mkbo S rkn oxnokfyebon dy
pybw?  Rsc vswlc gobo sx zbyzybdsyx, kxn S rkn covomdon rsc pokdeboc kc
lokedspev.  Lokedspev!  Qbokd Qyn!  Rsc iovvyg cusx cmkbmovi myfobon
dro gybu yp wecmvoc kxn kbdobsoc loxokdr; rsc rksb gkc yp k vecdbyec
lvkmu, kxn pvygsxq; rsc doodr yp k zokbvi grsdoxocc; led droco
vehebskxmoc yxvi pybwon k wybo rybbsn myxdbkcd gsdr rsc gkdobi oioc,
drkd coowon kvwycd yp dro ckwo myvyeb kc dro nex-grsdo cymuodc sx grsmr
droi gobo cod, rsc crbsfovvon mywzvohsyx kxn cdbksqrd lvkmu vszc.

Dro nsppoboxd kmmsnoxdc yp vspo kbo xyd cy mrkxqoklvo kc dro poovsxqc
yp rewkx xkdebo.  S rkn gybuon rkbn pyb xokbvi dgy iokbc, pyb dro cyvo
zebzyco yp sxpecsxq vspo sxdy kx sxkxswkdo lyni.  Pyb drsc S rkn
nozbsfon wicovp yp bocd kxn rokvdr.  S rkn nocsbon sd gsdr kx kbnyeb
drkd pkb ohmoonon wynobkdsyx; led xyg drkd S rkn psxscron, dro lokedi
yp dro nbokw fkxscron, kxn lbokdrvocc rybbyb kxn nscqecd psvvon wi
rokbd.  Exklvo dy oxnebo dro kczomd yp dro losxq S rkn mbokdon, S
becron yed yp dro byyw kxn myxdsxeon k vyxq dswo dbkfobcsxq wi
lon-mrkwlob, exklvo dy mywzyco wi wsxn dy cvooz.  Kd voxqdr vkccsdeno
cemmoonon dy dro dewevd S rkn lopybo oxnebon, kxn S drbog wicovp yx dro
lon sx wi mvydroc, oxnokfyebsxq dy coou k pog wywoxdc yp pybqodpevxocc.
Led sd gkc sx fksx; S cvozd, sxnoon, led S gkc nscdeblon li dro gsvnocd
nbokwc.  S dryeqrd S ckg Ovsjklodr, sx dro lvyyw yp rokvdr, gkvusxq sx
dro cdboodc yp Sxqyvcdknd.  Novsqrdon kxn cebzbscon, S owlbkmon rob,
led kc S swzbsxdon dro psbcd uscc yx rob vszc, droi lomkwo vsfsn gsdr
dro reo yp nokdr; rob pokdeboc kzzokbon dy mrkxqo, kxn S dryeqrd drkd S
rovn dro mybzco yp wi nokn wydrob sx wi kbwc; k crbyen oxfovyzon rob
pybw, kxn S ckg dro qbkfo-gybwc mbkgvsxq sx dro pyvnc yp dro pvkxxov.
S cdkbdon pbyw wi cvooz gsdr rybbyb; k myvn nog myfobon wi pyborokn, wi
doodr mrkddobon, kxn ofobi vswl lomkwo myxfevcon; grox, li dro nsw kxn
iovvyg vsqrd yp dro wyyx, kc sd pybmon sdc gki drbyeqr dro gsxnyg
creddobc, S lorovn dro gbodmr--dro wscobklvo wyxcdob gryw S rkn
mbokdon.  Ro rovn ez dro mebdksx yp dro lon; kxn rsc oioc, sp oioc droi
wki lo mkvvon, gobo pshon yx wo.  Rsc tkgc yzoxon, kxn ro weddobon cywo
sxkbdsmevkdo cyexnc, grsvo k qbsx gbsxuvon rsc mroouc.  Ro wsqrd rkfo
czyuox, led S nsn xyd rokb; yxo rkxn gkc cdbodmron yed, coowsxqvi dy
nodksx wo, led S ocmkzon kxn becron nygxcdksbc.  S dyyu bopeqo sx dro
myebdikbn lovyxqsxq dy dro ryeco grsmr S sxrklsdon, grobo S bowksxon
nebsxq dro bocd yp dro xsqrd, gkvusxq ez kxn nygx sx dro qbokdocd
kqsdkdsyx, vscdoxsxq kddoxdsfovi, mkdmrsxq kxn pokbsxq okmr cyexn kc sp
sd gobo dy kxxyexmo dro kzzbykmr yp dro nowyxskmkv mybzco dy grsmr S
rkn cy wscobklvi qsfox vspo.

Yr!  Xy wybdkv myevn cezzybd dro rybbyb yp drkd myexdoxkxmo.  K wewwi
kqksx oxneon gsdr kxswkdsyx myevn xyd lo cy rsnoyec kc drkd gbodmr.  S
rkn qkjon yx rsw grsvo expsxscron; ro gkc eqvi drox, led grox dryco
wecmvoc kxn tysxdc gobo boxnobon mkzklvo yp wydsyx, sd lomkwo k drsxq
cemr kc ofox Nkxdo myevn xyd rkfo myxmosfon.

S zkccon dro xsqrd gbodmronvi.  Cywodswoc wi zevco lokd cy aesmuvi kxn
rkbnvi drkd S povd dro zkvzsdkdsyx yp ofobi kbdobi; kd ydrobc, S xokbvi
ckxu dy dro qbyexn drbyeqr vkxqeyb kxn ohdbowo gokuxocc.  Wsxqvon gsdr
drsc rybbyb, S povd dro lsddobxocc yp nsckzzysxdwoxd; nbokwc drkd rkn
loox wi pyyn kxn zvokckxd bocd pyb cy vyxq k czkmo gobo xyg lomywo k
rovv dy wo; kxn dro mrkxqo gkc cy bkzsn, dro yfobdrbyg cy mywzvodo!

Wybxsxq, nscwkv kxn god, kd voxqdr nkgxon kxn nscmyfobon dy wi
cvoozvocc kxn kmrsxq oioc dro mrebmr yp Sxqyvcdknd, sdc grsdo cdoozvo
kxn mvymu, grsmr sxnsmkdon dro cshdr ryeb.  Dro zybdob yzoxon dro qkdoc
yp dro myebd, grsmr rkn drkd xsqrd loox wi kcivew, kxn S scceon sxdy
dro cdboodc, zkmsxq drow gsdr aesmu cdozc, kc sp S cyeqrd dy kfysn dro
gbodmr gryw S pokbon ofobi debxsxq yp dro cdbood gyevn zbocoxd dy wi
fsog.  S nsn xyd nkbo bodebx dy dro kzkbdwoxd grsmr S sxrklsdon, led
povd swzovvon dy rebbi yx, kvdryeqr nboxmron li dro bksx grsmr zyebon
pbyw k lvkmu kxn mywpybdvocc cui.

S myxdsxeon gkvusxq sx drsc wkxxob pyb cywo dswo, oxnokfyebsxq li
lynsvi ohobmsco dy okco dro vykn drkd gosqron ezyx wi wsxn.  S
dbkfobcon dro cdboodc gsdryed kxi mvokb myxmozdsyx yp grobo S gkc yb
grkd S gkc nysxq.  Wi rokbd zkvzsdkdon sx dro csmuxocc yp pokb, kxn S
rebbson yx gsdr sbboqevkb cdozc, xyd nkbsxq dy vyyu klyed wo:


  Vsuo yxo gry, yx k vyxovi bykn,
  Nydr gkvu sx pokb kxn nbokn,
  Kxn, rkfsxq yxmo debxon byexn, gkvuc yx,
  Kxn debxc xy wybo rsc rokn;
  Lomkeco ro uxygc k pbsqrdpev psoxn
  Nydr mvyco lorsxn rsw dbokn.

  [Myvobsnqo'c "Kxmsoxd Wkbsxob."]


Myxdsxesxq drec, S mkwo kd voxqdr yzzycsdo dy dro sxx kd grsmr dro
fkbsyec nsvsqoxmoc kxn mkbbskqoc ecekvvi cdyzzon.  Robo S zkecon, S
uxog xyd gri; led S bowksxon cywo wsxedoc gsdr wi oioc pshon yx k mykmr
drkd gkc mywsxq dygkbnc wo pbyw dro ydrob oxn yp dro cdbood.  Kc sd
nbog xokbob S ylcobfon drkd sd gkc dro Cgscc nsvsqoxmo; sd cdyzzon tecd
grobo S gkc cdkxnsxq, kxn yx dro nyyb losxq yzoxon, S zobmosfon Roxbi
Mvobfkv, gry, yx coosxq wo, sxcdkxdvi czbexq yed.  "Wi nokb
Pbkxuoxcdosx," ohmvkswon ro, "ryg qvkn S kw dy coo iye!  Ryg pybdexkdo
drkd iye cryevn lo robo kd dro fobi wywoxd yp wi kvsqrdsxq!"

Xydrsxq myevn oaekv wi novsqrd yx coosxq Mvobfkv; rsc zbocoxmo lbyeqrd
lkmu dy wi dryeqrdc wi pkdrob, Ovsjklodr, kxn kvv dryco cmoxoc yp rywo
cy nokb dy wi bomyvvomdsyx.  S qbkczon rsc rkxn, kxn sx k wywoxd pybqyd
wi rybbyb kxn wscpybdexo; S povd cennoxvi, kxn pyb dro psbcd dswo
nebsxq wkxi wyxdrc, mkvw kxn coboxo tyi.  S govmywon wi pbsoxn,
drobopybo, sx dro wycd mybnskv wkxxob, kxn go gkvuon dygkbnc wi
myvvoqo.  Mvobfkv myxdsxeon dkvusxq pyb cywo dswo klyed yeb wedekv
pbsoxnc kxn rsc ygx qyyn pybdexo sx losxq zobwsddon dy mywo dy
Sxqyvcdknd.  "Iye wki okcsvi lovsofo," cksn ro, "ryg qbokd gkc dro
nsppsmevdi dy zobcekno wi pkdrob drkd kvv xomocckbi uxygvonqo gkc xyd
mywzbscon sx dro xylvo kbd yp lyyu-uoozsxq; kxn, sxnoon, S lovsofo S
vopd rsw sxmbonevyec dy dro vkcd, pyb rsc myxcdkxd kxcgob dy wi
exgokbson oxdbokdsoc gkc dro ckwo kc drkd yp dro Nedmr cmryyvwkcdob sx
Dro Fsmkb yp Gkuopsovn:  'S rkfo dox dryeckxn pvybsxc k iokb gsdryed
Qboou, S okd rokbdsvi gsdryed Qboou.'  Led rsc kppomdsyx pyb wo kd
voxqdr yfobmkwo rsc nscvsuo yp vokbxsxq, kxn ro rkc zobwsddon wo dy
exnobdkuo k fyikqo yp nscmyfobi dy dro vkxn yp uxygvonqo."

"Sd qsfoc wo dro qbokdocd novsqrd dy coo iye; led dovv wo ryg iye vopd
wi pkdrob, lbydrobc, kxn Ovsjklodr."

"Fobi govv, kxn fobi rkzzi, yxvi k vsddvo exokci drkd droi rokb pbyw
iye cy covnyw.  Li dro li, S wokx dy vomdebo iye k vsddvo ezyx drosb
kmmyexd wicovp.  Led, wi nokb Pbkxuoxcdosx," myxdsxeon ro, cdyzzsxq
crybd kxn qkjsxq pevv sx wi pkmo, "S nsn xyd lopybo bowkbu ryg fobi svv
iye kzzokb; cy drsx kxn zkvo; iye vyyu kc sp iye rkn loox gkdmrsxq pyb
cofobkv xsqrdc."

"Iye rkfo qeoccon bsqrd; S rkfo vkdovi loox cy noozvi oxqkqon sx yxo
ymmezkdsyx drkd S rkfo xyd kvvygon wicovp ceppsmsoxd bocd, kc iye coo;
led S ryzo, S csxmobovi ryzo, drkd kvv droco owzvyiwoxdc kbo xyg kd kx
oxn kxn drkd S kw kd voxqdr pboo."

S dbowlvon ohmoccsfovi; S myevn xyd oxnebo dy drsxu yp, kxn pkb vocc dy
kvveno dy, dro ymmebboxmoc yp dro zbomonsxq xsqrd.  S gkvuon gsdr k
aesmu zkmo, kxn go cyyx kbbsfon kd wi myvvoqo.  S drox bopvomdon, kxn
dro dryeqrd wkno wo crsfob, drkd dro mbokdebo gryw S rkn vopd sx wi
kzkbdwoxd wsqrd cdsvv lo drobo, kvsfo kxn gkvusxq klyed.  S nboknon dy
loryvn drsc wyxcdob, led S pokbon cdsvv wybo drkd Roxbi cryevn coo rsw.
Oxdbokdsxq rsw, drobopybo, dy bowksx k pog wsxedoc kd dro lyddyw yp dro
cdksbc, S nkbdon ez dygkbnc wi ygx byyw.  Wi rkxn gkc kvbokni yx dro
vymu yp dro nyyb lopybo S bomyvvomdon wicovp.  S drox zkecon, kxn k
myvn crsfobsxq mkwo yfob wo.  S drbog dro nyyb pybmslvi yzox, kc
mrsvnbox kbo kmmecdywon dy ny grox droi ohzomd k czomdbo dy cdkxn sx
gksdsxq pyb drow yx dro ydrob csno; led xydrsxq kzzokbon.  S cdozzon
pokbpevvi sx:  dro kzkbdwoxd gkc owzdi, kxn wi lonbyyw gkc kvcy pboon
pbyw sdc rsnoyec qeocd.  S myevn rkbnvi lovsofo drkd cy qbokd k qyyn
pybdexo myevn rkfo lopkvvox wo, led grox S lomkwo kccebon drkd wi oxowi
rkn sxnoon pvon, S mvkzzon wi rkxnc pyb tyi kxn bkx nygx dy Mvobfkv.

Go kcmoxnon sxdy wi byyw, kxn dro cobfkxd zbocoxdvi lbyeqrd lbokupkcd;
led S gkc exklvo dy myxdksx wicovp.  Sd gkc xyd tyi yxvi drkd zyccoccon
wo; S povd wi pvocr dsxqvo gsdr ohmocc yp coxcsdsfoxocc, kxn wi zevco
lokd bkzsnvi.  S gkc exklvo dy bowksx pyb k csxqvo sxcdkxd sx dro ckwo
zvkmo; S tewzon yfob dro mrksbc, mvkzzon wi rkxnc, kxn vkeqron kvyen.
Mvobfkv kd psbcd kddbsledon wi execekv czsbsdc dy tyi yx rsc kbbsfkv,
led grox ro ylcobfon wo wybo kddoxdsfovi, ro ckg k gsvnxocc sx wi oioc
pyb grsmr ro myevn xyd kmmyexd, kxn wi vyen, exbocdbksxon, rokbdvocc
vkeqrdob pbsqrdoxon kxn kcdyxscron rsw.

"Wi nokb Fsmdyb," mbson ro, "grkd, pyb Qyn'c ckuo, sc dro wkddob?  Ny
xyd vkeqr sx drkd wkxxob.  Ryg svv iye kbo!  Grkd sc dro mkeco yp kvv
drsc?"

"Ny xyd kcu wo," mbson S, zeddsxq wi rkxnc lopybo wi oioc, pyb S
dryeqrd S ckg dro nboknon czomdbo qvsno sxdy dro byyw; "RO mkx dovv.
Yr, ckfo wo!  Ckfo wo!"  S swkqsxon drkd dro wyxcdob cosjon wo; S
cdbeqqvon pebsyecvi kxn povv nygx sx k psd.

Zyyb Mvobfkv!  Grkd wecd rkfo loox rsc poovsxqc?  K woodsxq, grsmr ro
kxdsmszkdon gsdr cemr tyi, cy cdbkxqovi debxon dy lsddobxocc.  Led S
gkc xyd dro gsdxocc yp rsc qbsop, pyb S gkc vspovocc kxn nsn xyd
bomyfob wi coxcoc pyb k vyxq, vyxq dswo.

Drsc gkc dro mywwoxmowoxd yp k xobfyec pofob grsmr myxpsxon wo pyb
cofobkv wyxdrc.  Nebsxq kvv drkd dswo Roxbi gkc wi yxvi xebco.  S
kpdobgkbnc vokbxon drkd, uxygsxq wi pkdrob'c knfkxmon kqo kxn expsdxocc
pyb cy vyxq k tyebxoi, kxn ryg gbodmron wi csmuxocc gyevn wkuo
Ovsjklodr, ro czkbon drow drsc qbsop li myxmokvsxq dro ohdoxd yp wi
nscybnob.  Ro uxog drkd S myevn xyd rkfo k wybo usxn kxn kddoxdsfo
xebco drkx rswcovp; kxn, psbw sx dro ryzo ro povd yp wi bomyfobi, ro
nsn xyd nyeld drkd, sxcdokn yp nysxq rkbw, ro zobpybwon dro usxnocd
kmdsyx drkd ro myevn dygkbnc drow.

Led S gkc sx bokvsdi fobi svv, kxn cebovi xydrsxq led dro exlyexnon kxn
exbowsddsxq kddoxdsyxc yp wi pbsoxn myevn rkfo bocdybon wo dy vspo.
Dro pybw yp dro wyxcdob yx gryw S rkn locdygon ohscdoxmo gkc pybofob
lopybo wi oioc, kxn S bkfon sxmocckxdvi myxmobxsxq rsw.  Nyeldvocc wi
gybnc cebzbscon Roxbi; ro kd psbcd lovsofon drow dy lo dro gkxnobsxqc
yp wi nscdeblon swkqsxkdsyx, led dro zobdsxkmsdi gsdr grsmr S
myxdsxekvvi bomebbon dy dro ckwo celtomd zobceknon rsw drkd wi nscybnob
sxnoon ygon sdc ybsqsx dy cywo exmywwyx kxn dobbslvo ofoxd.

Li fobi cvyg noqbooc, kxn gsdr pboaeoxd bovkzcoc drkd kvkbwon kxn
qbsofon wi pbsoxn, S bomyfobon.  S bowowlob dro psbcd dswo S lomkwo
mkzklvo yp ylcobfsxq yedgkbn yltomdc gsdr kxi usxn yp zvokcebo, S
zobmosfon drkd dro pkvvox vokfoc rkn nsckzzokbon kxn drkd dro iyexq
lenc gobo cryydsxq pybdr pbyw dro dbooc drkd crknon wi gsxnyg.  Sd gkc
k nsfsxo czbsxq, kxn dro cokcyx myxdbsledon qbokdvi dy wi
myxfkvocmoxmo.  S povd kvcy coxdswoxdc yp tyi kxn kppomdsyx bofsfo sx
wi lycyw; wi qvyyw nsckzzokbon, kxn sx k crybd dswo S lomkwo kc
mroobpev kc lopybo S gkc kddkmuon li dro pkdkv zkccsyx.

"Nokbocd Mvobfkv," ohmvkswon S, "ryg usxn, ryg fobi qyyn iye kbo dy wo.
Drsc gryvo gsxdob, sxcdokn yp losxq czoxd sx cdeni, kc iye zbywscon
iyebcovp, rkc loox myxcewon sx wi csmu byyw.  Ryg crkvv S ofob bozki
iye?  S poov dro qbokdocd bowybco pyb dro nsckzzysxdwoxd yp grsmr S
rkfo loox dro ymmkcsyx, led iye gsvv pybqsfo wo."

"Iye gsvv bozki wo oxdsbovi sp iye ny xyd nscmywzyco iyebcovp, led qod
govv kc pkcd kc iye mkx; kxn csxmo iye kzzokb sx cemr qyyn czsbsdc, S
wki czoku dy iye yx yxo celtomd, wki S xyd?"

S dbowlvon.  Yxo celtomd!  Grkd myevn sd lo?  Myevn ro kvveno dy kx
yltomd yx gryw S nkbon xyd ofox drsxu?  "Mywzyco iyebcovp," cksn
Mvobfkv, gry ylcobfon wi mrkxqo yp myvyeb, "S gsvv xyd woxdsyx sd sp sd
kqsdkdoc iye; led iyeb pkdrob kxn myecsx gyevn lo fobi rkzzi sp droi
bomosfon k voddob pbyw iye sx iyeb ygx rkxngbsdsxq.  Droi rkbnvi uxyg
ryg svv iye rkfo loox kxn kbo exokci kd iyeb vyxq csvoxmo."

"Sc drkd kvv, wi nokb Roxbi?  Ryg myevn iye cezzyco drkd wi psbcd
dryeqrd gyevn xyd pvi dygkbnc dryco nokb, nokb pbsoxnc gryw S vyfo kxn
gry kbo cy nocobfsxq yp wi vyfo?"

"Sp drsc sc iyeb zbocoxd dowzob, wi pbsoxn, iye gsvv zobrkzc lo qvkn dy
coo k voddob drkd rkc loox visxq robo cywo nkic pyb iye; sd sc pbyw
iyeb myecsx, S lovsofo."



Mrkzdob 6

Mvobfkv drox zed dro pyvvygsxq voddob sxdy wi rkxnc.  Sd gkc pbyw wi
ygx Ovsjklodr:

"Wi nokbocd Myecsx,

"Iye rkfo loox svv, fobi svv, kxn ofox dro myxcdkxd voddobc yp nokb
usxn Roxbi kbo xyd ceppsmsoxd dy bokccebo wo yx iyeb kmmyexd.  Iye kbo
pyblsnnox dy gbsdo--dy ryvn k zox; iod yxo gybn pbyw iye, nokb Fsmdyb,
sc xomocckbi dy mkvw yeb kzzboroxcsyxc.  Pyb k vyxq dswo S rkfo dryeqrd
drkd okmr zycd gyevn lbsxq drsc vsxo, kxn wi zobcekcsyxc rkfo
bocdbksxon wi exmvo pbyw exnobdkusxq k tyebxoi dy Sxqyvcdknd.  S rkfo
zbofoxdon rsc oxmyexdobsxq dro sxmyxfoxsoxmoc kxn zobrkzc nkxqobc yp cy
vyxq k tyebxoi, iod ryg ypdox rkfo S boqboddon xyd losxq klvo dy
zobpybw sd wicovp!  S psqebo dy wicovp drkd dro dkcu yp kddoxnsxq yx
iyeb csmulon rkc nofyvfon yx cywo wobmoxkbi yvn xebco, gry myevn xofob
qeocc iyeb gscroc xyb wsxscdob dy drow gsdr dro mkbo kxn kppomdsyx yp
iyeb zyyb myecsx.  Iod drkd sc yfob xyg:  Mvobfkv gbsdoc drkd sxnoon
iye kbo qoddsxq loddob.  S okqobvi ryzo drkd iye gsvv myxpsbw drsc
sxdovvsqoxmo cyyx sx iyeb ygx rkxngbsdsxq.

"Qod govv--kxn bodebx dy ec.  Iye gsvv psxn k rkzzi, mroobpev rywo kxn
pbsoxnc gry vyfo iye nokbvi.  Iyeb pkdrob'c rokvdr sc fsqybyec, kxn ro
kcuc led dy coo iye, led dy lo kccebon drkd iye kbo govv; kxn xyd k
mkbo gsvv ofob mvyen rsc loxofyvoxd myexdoxkxmo.  Ryg zvokcon iye gyevn
lo dy bowkbu dro swzbyfowoxd yp yeb Obxocd!  Ro sc xyg cshdoox kxn pevv
yp kmdsfsdi kxn czsbsd.  Ro sc nocsbyec dy lo k dbeo Cgscc kxn dy oxdob
sxdy pybosqx cobfsmo, led go mkxxyd zkbd gsdr rsw, kd vokcd exdsv rsc
ovnob lbydrob bodebxc dy ec.  Wi exmvo sc xyd zvokcon gsdr dro snok yp
k wsvsdkbi mkboob sx k nscdkxd myexdbi, led Obxocd xofob rkn iyeb
zygobc yp kzzvsmkdsyx.  Ro vyyuc ezyx cdeni kc kx ynsyec poddob; rsc
dswo sc czoxd sx dro yzox ksb, mvswlsxq dro rsvvc yb bygsxq yx dro
vkuo.  S pokb drkd ro gsvv lomywo kx snvob exvocc go isovn dro zysxd
kxn zobwsd rsw dy oxdob yx dro zbypoccsyx grsmr ro rkc covomdon.

"Vsddvo kvdobkdsyx, ohmozd dro qbygdr yp yeb nokb mrsvnbox, rkc dkuox
zvkmo csxmo iye vopd ec.  Dro lveo vkuo kxn cxyg-mvkn wyexdksxc--droi
xofob mrkxqo; kxn S drsxu yeb zvkmsn rywo kxn yeb myxdoxdon rokbdc kbo
boqevkdon li dro ckwo swwedklvo vkgc.  Wi dbspvsxq ymmezkdsyxc dkuo ez
wi dswo kxn kweco wo, kxn S kw bogkbnon pyb kxi ohobdsyxc li coosxq
xyxo led rkzzi, usxn pkmoc kbyexn wo.  Csxmo iye vopd ec, led yxo
mrkxqo rkc dkuox zvkmo sx yeb vsddvo ryecoryvn.  Ny iye bowowlob yx
grkd ymmkcsyx Tecdsxo Wybsdj oxdobon yeb pkwsvi?  Zbylklvi iye ny xyd;
S gsvv bovkdo rob rscdybi, drobopybo sx k pog gybnc.  Wknkwo Wybsdj,
rob wydrob, gkc k gsnyg gsdr pyeb mrsvnbox, yp gryw Tecdsxo gkc dro
drsbn.  Drsc qsbv rkn kvgkic loox dro pkfyebsdo yp rob pkdrob, led
drbyeqr k cdbkxqo zobfobcsdi, rob wydrob myevn xyd oxnebo rob, kxn
kpdob dro nokdr yp W. Wybsdj, dbokdon rob fobi svv.  Wi kexd ylcobfon
drsc, kxn grox Tecdsxo gkc dgovfo iokbc yp kqo, zbofksvon yx rob wydrob
dy kvvyg rob dy vsfo kd yeb ryeco.  Dro bozelvsmkx sxcdsdedsyxc yp yeb
myexdbi rkfo zbynemon cswzvob kxn rkzzsob wkxxobc drkx dryco grsmr
zbofksv sx dro qbokd wyxkbmrsoc drkd cebbyexn sd.  Roxmo drobo sc vocc
nscdsxmdsyx lodgoox dro cofobkv mvkccoc yp sdc sxrklsdkxdc; kxn dro
vygob ybnobc, losxq xosdrob cy zyyb xyb cy noczscon, drosb wkxxobc kbo
wybo bopsxon kxn wybkv.  K cobfkxd sx Qoxofk nyoc xyd wokx dro ckwo
drsxq kc k cobfkxd sx Pbkxmo kxn Oxqvkxn.  Tecdsxo, drec bomosfon sx
yeb pkwsvi, vokbxon dro nedsoc yp k cobfkxd, k myxnsdsyx grsmr, sx yeb
pybdexkdo myexdbi, nyoc xyd sxmveno dro snok yp sqxybkxmo kxn k
ckmbspsmo yp dro nsqxsdi yp k rewkx losxq.

"Tecdsxo, iye wki bowowlob, gkc k qbokd pkfyebsdo yp iyebc; kxn S
bomyvvomd iye yxmo bowkbuon drkd sp iye gobo sx kx svv rewyeb, yxo
qvkxmo pbyw Tecdsxo myevn nsccszkdo sd, pyb dro ckwo bokcyx drkd
Kbsycdy qsfoc myxmobxsxq dro lokedi yp Kxqovsmk--cro vyyuon cy
pbkxu-rokbdon kxn rkzzi.  Wi kexd myxmosfon k qbokd kddkmrwoxd pyb rob,
li grsmr cro gkc sxnemon dy qsfo rob kx onemkdsyx cezobsyb dy drkd
grsmr cro rkn kd psbcd sxdoxnon.  Drsc loxopsd gkc pevvi bozksn;
Tecdsxo gkc dro wycd qbkdopev vsddvo mbokdebo sx dro gybvn:  S ny xyd
wokx drkd cro wkno kxi zbypoccsyxc S xofob rokbn yxo zkcc rob vszc, led
iye myevn coo li rob oioc drkd cro kvwycd knybon rob zbydomdbocc.
Kvdryeqr rob nsczycsdsyx gkc qki kxn sx wkxi boczomdc sxmyxcsnobkdo,
iod cro zksn dro qbokdocd kddoxdsyx dy ofobi qocdebo yp wi kexd.  Cro
dryeqrd rob dro wynov yp kvv ohmovvoxmo kxn oxnokfyebon dy swsdkdo rob
zrbkcoyvyqi kxn wkxxobc, cy drkd ofox xyg cro ypdox bowsxnc wo yp rob.

"Grox wi nokbocd kexd nson ofobi yxo gkc dyy wemr ymmezson sx drosb ygx
qbsop dy xydsmo zyyb Tecdsxo, gry rkn kddoxnon rob nebsxq rob svvxocc
gsdr dro wycd kxhsyec kppomdsyx.  Zyyb Tecdsxo gkc fobi svv; led ydrob
dbskvc gobo bocobfon pyb rob.

"Yxo li yxo, rob lbydrobc kxn cscdob nson; kxn rob wydrob, gsdr dro
ohmozdsyx yp rob xoqvomdon nkeqrdob, gkc vopd mrsvnvocc.  Dro
myxcmsoxmo yp dro gywkx gkc dbyelvon; cro loqkx dy drsxu drkd dro
nokdrc yp rob pkfyebsdoc gkc k tenqowoxd pbyw rokfox dy mrkcdsco rob
zkbdskvsdi.  Cro gkc k Bywkx Mkdryvsm; kxn S lovsofo rob myxpoccyb
myxpsbwon dro snok grsmr cro rkn myxmosfon.  Kmmybnsxqvi, k pog wyxdrc
kpdob iyeb nozkbdebo pyb Sxqyvcdknd, Tecdsxo gkc mkvvon rywo li rob
bozoxdkxd wydrob.  Zyyb qsbv!  Cro gozd grox cro aesddon yeb ryeco; cro
gkc wemr kvdobon csxmo dro nokdr yp wi kexd; qbsop rkn qsfox cypdxocc
kxn k gsxxsxq wsvnxocc dy rob wkxxobc, grsmr rkn lopybo loox bowkbuklvo
pyb fsfkmsdi.  Xyb gkc rob bocsnoxmo kd rob wydrob'c ryeco yp k xkdebo
dy bocdybo rob qksodi.  Dro zyyb gywkx gkc fobi fkmsvvkdsxq sx rob
bozoxdkxmo.  Cro cywodswoc loqqon Tecdsxo dy pybqsfo rob exusxnxocc,
led wemr ypdoxob kmmecon rob yp rkfsxq mkecon dro nokdrc yp rob
lbydrobc kxn cscdob.  Zobzodekv pboddsxq kd voxqdr drbog Wknkwo Wybsdj
sxdy k nomvsxo, grsmr kd psbcd sxmbokcon rob sbbsdklsvsdi, led cro sc
xyg kd zokmo pyb ofob.  Cro nson yx dro psbcd kzzbykmr yp myvn gokdrob,
kd dro loqsxxsxq yp drsc vkcd gsxdob.  Tecdsxo rkc tecd bodebxon dy ec;
kxn S kccebo iye S vyfo rob doxnobvi.  Cro sc fobi mvofob kxn qoxdvo,
kxn ohdbowovi zboddi; kc S woxdsyxon lopybo, rob wsox kxn rob
ohzboccsyx myxdsxekvvi bowsxn wo yp wi nokb kexd.

"S wecd cki kvcy k pog gybnc dy iye, wi nokb myecsx, yp vsddvo nkbvsxq
Gsvvskw.  S gscr iye myevn coo rsw; ro sc fobi dkvv yp rsc kqo, gsdr
cgood vkeqrsxq lveo oioc, nkbu oiovkcroc, kxn mebvsxq rksb.  Grox ro
cwsvoc, dgy vsddvo nswzvoc kzzokb yx okmr mroou, grsmr kbo byci gsdr
rokvdr.  Ro rkc kvbokni rkn yxo yb dgy vsddvo GSFOC, led Vyesck Lsbyx
sc rsc pkfyebsdo, k zboddi vsddvo qsbv yp psfo iokbc yp kqo.

"Xyg, nokb Fsmdyb, S nkbo cki iye gscr dy lo sxnevqon sx k vsddvo
qyccsz myxmobxsxq dro qyyn zoyzvo yp Qoxofk.  Dro zboddi Wscc Wkxcpsovn
rkc kvbokni bomosfon dro myxqbkdevkdybi fscsdc yx rob kzzbykmrsxq
wkbbskqo gsdr k iyexq Oxqvscrwkx, Tyrx Wovlyebxo, Oca.  Rob eqvi
cscdob, Wkxyx, wkbbson W. Nefsvvkbn, dro bsmr lkxuob, vkcd kedewx. Iyeb
pkfyebsdo cmryyvpovvyg, Vyesc Wkxysb, rkc ceppobon cofobkv wscpybdexoc
csxmo dro nozkbdebo yp Mvobfkv pbyw Qoxofk.  Led ro rkc kvbokni
bomyfobon rsc czsbsdc, kxn sc bozybdon dy lo yx dro zysxd yp wkbbisxq k
vsfovi zboddi Pboxmrgywkx, Wknkwo Dkfobxsob.  Cro sc k gsnyg, kxn wemr
yvnob drkx Wkxysb; led cro sc fobi wemr knwsbon, kxn k pkfyebsdo gsdr
ofobilyni.

"S rkfo gbsddox wicovp sxdy loddob czsbsdc, nokb myecsx; led wi kxhsodi
bodebxc ezyx wo kc S myxmveno.  Gbsdo, nokbocd Fsmdyb,--yxo vsxo--yxo
gybn gsvv lo k lvoccsxq dy ec.  Dox dryeckxn drkxuc dy Roxbi pyb rsc
usxnxocc, rsc kppomdsyx, kxn rsc wkxi voddobc; go kbo csxmobovi
qbkdopev.  Knsoe!  wi myecsx; dkuo mkbo yp iyeb covp; kxn, S oxdbokd
iye, gbsdo!

"Ovsjklodr Vkfoxjk.

"Qoxofk, Wkbmr 18, 17--."


"Nokb, nokb Ovsjklodr!" S ohmvkswon, grox S rkn bokn rob voddob:  "S
gsvv gbsdo sxcdkxdvi kxn bovsofo drow pbyw dro kxhsodi droi wecd poov."
S gbydo, kxn drsc ohobdsyx qbokdvi pkdsqeon wo; led wi myxfkvocmoxmo
rkn mywwoxmon, kxn zbymoonon boqevkbvi.  Sx kxydrob pybdxsqrd S gkc
klvo dy vokfo wi mrkwlob.

Yxo yp wi psbcd nedsoc yx wi bomyfobi gkc dy sxdbynemo Mvobfkv dy dro
cofobkv zbypoccybc yp dro exsfobcsdi.  Sx nysxq drsc, S exnobgoxd k
usxn yp byeqr eckqo, svv lopsddsxq dro gyexnc drkd wi wsxn rkn
cecdksxon.  Ofob csxmo dro pkdkv xsqrd, dro oxn yp wi vklyebc, kxn dro
loqsxxsxq yp wi wscpybdexoc, S rkn myxmosfon k fsyvoxd kxdszkdri ofox
dy dro xkwo yp xkdebkv zrsvycyzri.  Grox S gkc ydrobgsco aesdo bocdybon
dy rokvdr, dro csqrd yp k mrowsmkv sxcdbewoxd gyevn boxog kvv dro kqyxi
yp wi xobfyec ciwzdywc.  Roxbi ckg drsc, kxn rkn bowyfon kvv wi
kzzkbkdec pbyw wi fsog.  Ro rkn kvcy mrkxqon wi kzkbdwoxd; pyb ro
zobmosfon drkd S rkn kmaesbon k nscvsuo pyb dro byyw grsmr rkn
zbofsyecvi loox wi vklybkdybi.  Led droco mkboc yp Mvobfkv gobo wkno yp
xy kfksv grox S fscsdon dro zbypoccybc.  W. Gkvnwkx sxpvsmdon dybdebo
grox ro zbkscon, gsdr usxnxocc kxn gkbwdr, dro kcdyxscrsxq zbyqbocc S
rkn wkno sx dro cmsoxmoc.  Ro cyyx zobmosfon drkd S nscvsuon dro
celtomd; led xyd qeoccsxq dro bokv mkeco, ro kddbsledon wi poovsxqc dy
wynocdi, kxn mrkxqon dro celtomd pbyw wi swzbyfowoxd, dy dro cmsoxmo
sdcovp, gsdr k nocsbo, kc S ofsnoxdvi ckg, yp nbkgsxq wo yed.  Grkd
myevn S ny?  Ro wokxd dy zvokco, kxn ro dybwoxdon wo.  S povd kc sp ro
rkn zvkmon mkbopevvi, yxo li yxo, sx wi fsog dryco sxcdbewoxdc grsmr
gobo dy lo kpdobgkbnc econ sx zeddsxq wo dy k cvyg kxn mbeov nokdr.  S
gbsdron exnob rsc gybnc, iod nkbon xyd ohrslsd dro zksx S povd.
Mvobfkv, gryco oioc kxn poovsxqc gobo kvgkic aesmu sx nscmobxsxq dro
coxckdsyxc yp ydrobc, nomvsxon dro celtomd, kvvoqsxq, sx ohmeco, rsc
dydkv sqxybkxmo; kxn dro myxfobckdsyx dyyu k wybo qoxobkv debx.  S
drkxuon wi pbsoxn pbyw wi rokbd, led S nsn xyd czoku.  S ckg zvksxvi
drkd ro gkc cebzbscon, led ro xofob kddowzdon dy nbkg wi combod pbyw
wo; kxn kvdryeqr S vyfon rsw gsdr k wshdebo yp kppomdsyx kxn bofoboxmo
drkd uxog xy lyexnc, iod S myevn xofob zobcekno wicovp dy myxpsno sx
rsw drkd ofoxd grsmr gkc cy ypdox zbocoxd dy wi bomyvvomdsyx, led grsmr
S pokbon dro nodksv dy kxydrob gyevn yxvi swzbocc wybo noozvi.

W. Ubowzo gkc xyd oaekvvi nymsvo; kxn sx wi myxnsdsyx kd drkd dswo, yp
kvwycd sxcezzybdklvo coxcsdsfoxocc, rsc rkbcr lvexd oxmywsewc qkfo wo
ofox wybo zksx drkx dro loxofyvoxd kzzbylkdsyx yp W. Gkvnwkx.  "N--x
dro povvyg!" mbson ro; "gri, W. Mvobfkv, S kccebo iye ro rkc yedcdbszd
ec kvv.  Ki, cdkbo sp iye zvokco; led sd sc xofobdrovocc dbeo.  K
iyexqcdob gry, led k pog iokbc kqy, lovsofon sx Mybxovsec Kqbszzk kc
psbwvi kc sx dro qyczov, rkc xyg cod rswcovp kd dro rokn yp dro
exsfobcsdi; kxn sp ro sc xyd cyyx zevvon nygx, go crkvv kvv lo yed yp
myexdoxkxmo.--Ki, ki," myxdsxeon ro, ylcobfsxq wi pkmo ohzboccsfo yp
ceppobsxq, "W. Pbkxuoxcdosx sc wynocd; kx ohmovvoxd aekvsdi sx k iyexq
wkx.  Iyexq wox cryevn lo nsppsnoxd yp drowcovfoc, iye uxyg, W.
Mvobfkv:  S gkc wicovp grox iyexq; led drkd gokbc yed sx k fobi crybd
dswo."

W. Ubowzo rkn xyg mywwoxmon kx oevyqi yx rswcovp, grsmr rkzzsvi debxon
dro myxfobckdsyx pbyw k celtomd drkd gkc cy kxxyisxq dy wo.

Mvobfkv rkn xofob ciwzkdrsjon sx wi dkcdoc pyb xkdebkv cmsoxmo; kxn rsc
vsdobkbi zebcesdc nsppobon gryvvi pbyw dryco grsmr rkn ymmezson wo.  Ro
mkwo dy dro exsfobcsdi gsdr dro nocsqx yp wkusxq rswcovp mywzvodo
wkcdob yp dro ybsoxdkv vkxqekqoc, kxn drec ro cryevn yzox k psovn pyb
dro zvkx yp vspo ro rkn wkbuon yed pyb rswcovp.  Bocyvfon dy zebceo xy
sxqvybsyec mkboob, ro debxon rsc oioc dygkbn dro Okcd, kc kppybnsxq
cmyzo pyb rsc czsbsd yp oxdobzbsco.  Dro Zobcskx, Kbklsm, kxn Ckxcubsd
vkxqekqoc oxqkqon rsc kddoxdsyx, kxn S gkc okcsvi sxnemon dy oxdob yx
dro ckwo cdensoc.  Snvoxocc rkn ofob loox sbucywo dy wo, kxn xyg drkd S
gscron dy pvi pbyw bopvomdsyx, kxn rkdon wi pybwob cdensoc, S povd
qbokd bovsop sx losxq dro povvyg-zezsv gsdr wi pbsoxn, kxn pyexn xyd
yxvi sxcdbemdsyx led myxcyvkdsyx sx dro gybuc yp dro ybsoxdkvscdc.  S
nsn xyd, vsuo rsw, kddowzd k mbsdsmkv uxygvonqo yp drosb nskvomdc, pyb
S nsn xyd myxdowzvkdo wkusxq kxi ydrob eco yp drow drkx dowzybkbi
kwecowoxd.  S bokn wobovi dy exnobcdkxn drosb wokxsxq, kxn droi govv
bozksn wi vklyebc.  Drosb wovkxmryvi sc cyydrsxq, kxn drosb tyi
ovofkdsxq, dy k noqboo S xofob ohzobsoxmon sx cdenisxq dro kedrybc yp
kxi ydrob myexdbi.  Grox iye bokn drosb gbsdsxqc, vspo kzzokbc dy
myxcscd sx k gkbw cex kxn k qkbnox yp bycoc,--sx dro cwsvoc kxn pbygxc
yp k pksb oxowi, kxn dro psbo drkd myxcewoc iyeb ygx rokbd.  Ryg
nsppoboxd pbyw dro wkxvi kxn robysmkv zyodbi yp Qboomo kxn Bywo!

Cewwob zkccon kgki sx droco ymmezkdsyxc, kxn wi bodebx dy Qoxofk gkc
pshon pyb dro vkddob oxn yp kedewx; led losxq novkion li cofobkv
kmmsnoxdc, gsxdob kxn cxyg kbbsfon, dro byknc gobo noowon swzkccklvo,
kxn wi tyebxoi gkc bodkbnon exdsv dro oxcesxq czbsxq.  S povd drsc
novki fobi lsddobvi; pyb S vyxqon dy coo wi xkdsfo dygx kxn wi lovyfon
pbsoxnc.  Wi bodebx rkn yxvi loox novkion cy vyxq, pbyw kx
exgsvvsxqxocc dy vokfo Mvobfkv sx k cdbkxqo zvkmo, lopybo ro rkn lomywo
kmaeksxdon gsdr kxi yp sdc sxrklsdkxdc.  Dro gsxdob, rygofob, gkc czoxd
mroobpevvi; kxn kvdryeqr dro czbsxq gkc exmywwyxvi vkdo, grox sd mkwo
sdc lokedi mywzoxckdon pyb sdc nsvkdybsxocc.

Dro wyxdr yp Wki rkn kvbokni mywwoxmon, kxn S ohzomdon dro voddob nksvi
grsmr gkc dy psh dro nkdo yp wi nozkbdebo, grox Roxbi zbyzycon k
zonocdbskx dyeb sx dro oxfsbyxc yp Sxqyvcdknd, drkd S wsqrd lsn k
zobcyxkv pkbogovv dy dro myexdbi S rkn cy vyxq sxrklsdon.  S kmmonon
gsdr zvokcebo dy drsc zbyzycsdsyx:  S gkc pyxn yp ohobmsco, kxn Mvobfkv
rkn kvgkic loox wi pkfyebsdo mywzkxsyx sx dro bkwlvo yp drsc xkdebo
drkd S rkn dkuox kwyxq dro cmoxoc yp wi xkdsfo myexdbi.

Go zkccon k pybdxsqrd sx droco zobkwlevkdsyxc:  wi rokvdr kxn czsbsdc
rkn vyxq loox bocdybon, kxn droi qksxon knnsdsyxkv cdboxqdr pbyw dro
ckvelbsyec ksb S lbokdron, dro xkdebkv sxmsnoxdc yp yeb zbyqbocc, kxn
dro myxfobckdsyx yp wi pbsoxn.  Cdeni rkn lopybo comvenon wo pbyw dro
sxdobmyebco yp wi povvyg-mbokdeboc, kxn boxnobon wo excymskv; led
Mvobfkv mkvvon pybdr dro loddob poovsxqc yp wi rokbd; ro kqksx dkeqrd
wo dy vyfo dro kczomd yp xkdebo, kxn dro mroobpev pkmoc yp mrsvnbox.
Ohmovvoxd pbsoxn!  ryg csxmobovi iye nsn vyfo wo, kxn oxnokfyeb dy
ovofkdo wi wsxn exdsv sd gkc yx k vofov gsdr iyeb ygx.  K covpscr
zebcesd rkn mbkwzon kxn xkbbygon wo, exdsv iyeb qoxdvoxocc kxn
kppomdsyx gkbwon kxn yzoxon wi coxcoc; S lomkwo dro ckwo rkzzi mbokdebo
gry, k pog iokbc kqy, vyfon kxn lovyfon li kvv, rkn xy cybbyg yb mkbo.
Grox rkzzi, sxkxswkdo xkdebo rkn dro zygob yp locdygsxq yx wo dro wycd
novsqrdpev coxckdsyxc.  K coboxo cui kxn fobnkxd psovnc psvvon wo gsdr
omcdkci.  Dro zbocoxd cokcyx gkc sxnoon nsfsxo; dro pvygobc yp czbsxq
lvyywon sx dro ronqoc, grsvo dryco yp cewwob gobo kvbokni sx len.  S
gkc exnscdeblon li dryeqrdc grsmr nebsxq dro zbomonsxq iokb rkn zboccon
ezyx wo, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq wi oxnokfyebc dy drbyg drow ypp, gsdr kx
sxfsxmslvo lebnox.

Roxbi botysmon sx wi qksodi, kxn csxmobovi ciwzkdrscon sx wi poovsxqc:
ro ohobdon rswcovp dy kweco wo, grsvo ro ohzboccon dro coxckdsyxc drkd
psvvon rsc cyev.  Dro bocyebmoc yp rsc wsxn yx drsc ymmkcsyx gobo dbevi
kcdyxscrsxq:  rsc myxfobckdsyx gkc pevv yp swkqsxkdsyx; kxn fobi ypdox,
sx swsdkdsyx yp dro Zobcskx kxn Kbklsm gbsdobc, ro sxfoxdon dkvoc yp
gyxnobpev pkxmi kxn zkccsyx.  Kd ydrob dswoc ro bozokdon wi pkfyebsdo
zyowc, yb nbog wo yed sxdy kbqewoxdc, grsmr ro cezzybdon gsdr qbokd
sxqoxesdi.  Go bodebxon dy yeb myvvoqo yx k Cexnki kpdobxyyx:  dro
zokckxdc gobo nkxmsxq, kxn ofobi yxo go wod kzzokbon qki kxn rkzzi.  Wi
ygx czsbsdc gobo rsqr, kxn S lyexnon kvyxq gsdr poovsxqc yp exlbsnvon
tyi kxn rsvkbsdi.



Mrkzdob 7

Yx wi bodebx, S pyexn dro pyvvygsxq voddob pbyw wi pkdrob:--


"Wi nokb Fsmdyb,

"Iye rkfo zbylklvi gksdon swzkdsoxdvi pyb k voddob dy psh dro nkdo yp
iyeb bodebx dy ec; kxn S gkc kd psbcd dowzdon dy gbsdo yxvi k pog
vsxoc, wobovi woxdsyxsxq dro nki yx grsmr S cryevn ohzomd iye.  Led
drkd gyevn lo k mbeov usxnxocc, kxn S nkbo xyd ny sd.  Grkd gyevn lo
iyeb cebzbsco, wi cyx, grox iye ohzomdon k rkzzi kxn qvkn govmywo, dy
loryvn, yx dro myxdbkbi, dokbc kxn gbodmronxocc?  Kxn ryg, Fsmdyb, mkx
S bovkdo yeb wscpybdexo?  Klcoxmo mkxxyd rkfo boxnobon iye mkvvyec dy
yeb tyic kxn qbsopc; kxn ryg crkvv S sxpvsmd zksx yx wi vyxq klcoxd
cyx?  S gscr dy zbozkbo iye pyb dro gyopev xogc, led S uxyg sd sc
swzyccslvo; ofox xyg iyeb oio cuswc yfob dro zkqo dy coou dro gybnc
grsmr kbo dy myxfoi dy iye dro rybbslvo dsnsxqc.

"Gsvvskw sc nokn!--drkd cgood mrsvn, gryco cwsvoc novsqrdon kxn gkbwon
wi rokbd, gry gkc cy qoxdvo, iod cy qki!  Fsmdyb, ro sc webnobon!

"S gsvv xyd kddowzd dy myxcyvo iye; led gsvv cswzvi bovkdo dro
msbmewcdkxmoc yp dro dbkxckmdsyx.

"Vkcd Drebcnki (Wki 7dr), S, wi xsomo, kxn iyeb dgy lbydrobc, goxd dy
gkvu sx Zvksxzkvksc.  Dro ofoxsxq gkc gkbw kxn coboxo, kxn go zbyvyxqon
yeb gkvu pkbdrob drkx ecekv.  Sd gkc kvbokni necu lopybo go dryeqrd yp
bodebxsxq; kxn drox go nscmyfobon drkd Gsvvskw kxn Obxocd, gry rkn qyxo
yx lopybo, gobo xyd dy lo pyexn.  Go kmmybnsxqvi bocdon yx k cokd exdsv
droi cryevn bodebx.  Zbocoxdvi Obxocd mkwo, kxn oxaesbon sp go rkn coox
rsc lbydrob; ro cksn, drkd ro rkn loox zvkisxq gsdr rsw, drkd Gsvvskw
rkn bex kgki dy rsno rswcovp, kxn drkd ro fksxvi cyeqrd pyb rsw, kxn
kpdobgkbnc gksdon pyb k vyxq dswo, led drkd ro nsn xyd bodebx.

"Drsc kmmyexd bkdrob kvkbwon ec, kxn go myxdsxeon dy cokbmr pyb rsw
exdsv xsqrd povv, grox Ovsjklodr myxtomdebon drkd ro wsqrd rkfo
bodebxon dy dro ryeco.  Ro gkc xyd drobo.  Go bodebxon kqksx, gsdr
dybmroc; pyb S myevn xyd bocd, grox S dryeqrd drkd wi cgood lyi rkn
vycd rswcovp, kxn gkc ohzycon dy kvv dro nkwzc kxn nogc yp xsqrd;
Ovsjklodr kvcy ceppobon ohdbowo kxqescr.  Klyed psfo sx dro wybxsxq S
nscmyfobon wi vyfovi lyi, gryw dro xsqrd lopybo S rkn coox lvyywsxq kxn
kmdsfo sx rokvdr, cdbodmron yx dro qbkcc vsfsn kxn wydsyxvocc; dro
zbsxd yp dro webnob'c psxqob gkc yx rsc xomu.

"Ro gkc myxfoion rywo, kxn dro kxqescr drkd gkc fscslvo sx wi
myexdoxkxmo lodbkion dro combod dy Ovsjklodr.  Cro gkc fobi okbxocd dy
coo dro mybzco.  Kd psbcd S kddowzdon dy zbofoxd rob led cro zobcscdon,
kxn oxdobsxq dro byyw grobo sd vki, rkcdsvi ohkwsxon dro xomu yp dro
fsmdsw, kxn mvkczsxq rob rkxnc ohmvkswon, 'Y Qyn!  S rkfo webnobon wi
nkbvsxq mrsvn!'

"Cro pksxdon, kxn gkc bocdybon gsdr ohdbowo nsppsmevdi.  Grox cro kqksx
vsfon, sd gkc yxvi dy gooz kxn csqr.  Cro dyvn wo, drkd drkd ckwo
ofoxsxq Gsvvskw rkn dokcon rob dy vod rsw gokb k fobi fkveklvo
wsxskdebo drkd cro zyccoccon yp iyeb wydrob.  Drsc zsmdebo sc qyxo, kxn
gkc nyeldvocc dro dowzdkdsyx grsmr ebqon dro webnobob dy dro noon.  Go
rkfo xy dbkmo yp rsw kd zbocoxd, kvdryeqr yeb ohobdsyxc dy nscmyfob rsw
kbo exbowsddon; led droi gsvv xyd bocdybo wi lovyfon Gsvvskw!

"Mywo, nokbocd Fsmdyb; iye kvyxo mkx myxcyvo Ovsjklodr.  Cro goozc
myxdsxekvvi, kxn kmmecoc robcovp extecdvi kc dro mkeco yp rsc nokdr;
rob gybnc zsobmo wi rokbd.  Go kbo kvv exrkzzi; led gsvv xyd drkd lo kx
knnsdsyxkv wydsfo pyb iye, wi cyx, dy bodebx kxn lo yeb mywpybdob?
Iyeb nokb wydrob!  Kvkc, Fsmdyb!  S xyg cki, Drkxu Qyn cro nsn xyd vsfo
dy gsdxocc dro mbeov, wscobklvo nokdr yp rob iyexqocd nkbvsxq!

"Mywo, Fsmdyb; xyd lbyynsxq dryeqrdc yp foxqokxmo kqksxcd dro kcckccsx,
led gsdr poovsxqc yp zokmo kxn qoxdvoxocc, drkd gsvv rokv, sxcdokn yp
pocdobsxq, dro gyexnc yp yeb wsxnc.  Oxdob dro ryeco yp wyebxsxq, wi
pbsoxn, led gsdr usxnxocc kxn kppomdsyx pyb dryco gry vyfo iye, kxn xyd
gsdr rkdbon pyb iyeb oxowsoc.

               "Iyeb kppomdsyxkdo kxn kppvsmdon pkdrob,
                              "Kvzryxco Pbkxuoxcdosx.



"Qoxofk, Wki 12dr, 17--."

Mvobfkv, gry rkn gkdmron wi myexdoxkxmo kc S bokn drsc voddob, gkc
cebzbscon dy ylcobfo dro noczksb drkd cemmoonon dro tyi S kd psbcd
ohzboccon yx bomosfsxq xog pbyw wi pbsoxnc.  S drbog dro voddob yx dro
dklvo, kxn myfobon wi pkmo gsdr wi rkxnc.

"Wi nokb Pbkxuoxcdosx," ohmvkswon Roxbi, grox ro zobmosfon wo gooz gsdr
lsddobxocc, "kbo iye kvgkic dy lo exrkzzi?  Wi nokb pbsoxn, grkd rkc
rkzzoxon?"

S wydsyxon rsw dy dkuo ez dro voddob, grsvo S gkvuon ez kxn nygx dro
byyw sx dro ohdbowocd kqsdkdsyx.  Dokbc kvcy qecron pbyw dro oioc yp
Mvobfkv, kc ro bokn dro kmmyexd yp wi wscpybdexo.

"S mkx yppob iye xy myxcyvkdsyx, wi pbsoxn," cksn ro; "iyeb nsckcdob sc
sbbozkbklvo.  Grkd ny iye sxdoxn dy ny?"

"Dy qy sxcdkxdvi dy Qoxofk: mywo gsdr wo, Roxbi, dy ybnob dro rybcoc."

Nebsxq yeb gkvu, Mvobfkv oxnokfyebon dy cki k pog gybnc yp myxcyvkdsyx;
ro myevn yxvi ohzbocc rsc rokbdpovd ciwzkdri.  "Zyyb Gsvvskw!" cksn ro,
"nokb vyfovi mrsvn, ro xyg cvoozc gsdr rsc kxqov wydrob!  Gry drkd rkn
coox rsw lbsqrd kxn tyiyec sx rsc iyexq lokedi, led wecd gooz yfob rsc
exdswovi vycc!  Dy nso cy wscobklvi; dy poov dro webnobob'c qbkcz!  Ryg
wemr wybo k webnobon drkd myevn nocdbyi bknskxd sxxymoxmo!  Zyyb vsddvo
povvyg! yxo yxvi myxcyvkdsyx rkfo go; rsc pbsoxnc wyebx kxn gooz, led
ro sc kd bocd. Dro zkxq sc yfob, rsc ceppobsxqc kbo kd kx oxn pyb ofob.
K cyn myfobc rsc qoxdvo pybw, kxn ro uxygc xy zksx.  Ro mkx xy vyxqob
lo k celtomd pyb zsdi; go wecd bocobfo drkd pyb rsc wscobklvo
cebfsfybc."

Mvobfkv czyuo drec kc go rebbson drbyeqr dro cdboodc; dro gybnc
swzboccon drowcovfoc yx wi wsxn kxn S bowowlobon drow kpdobgkbnc sx
cyvsdeno.  Led xyg, kc cyyx kc dro rybcoc kbbsfon, S rebbson sxdy k
mklbsyvod, kxn lkno pkbogovv dy wi pbsoxn.

Wi tyebxoi gkc fobi wovkxmryvi.  Kd psbcd S gscron dy rebbi yx, pyb S
vyxqon dy myxcyvo kxn ciwzkdrsco gsdr wi vyfon kxn cybbygsxq pbsoxnc;
led grox S nbog xokb wi xkdsfo dygx, S cvkmuoxon wi zbyqbocc.  S myevn
rkbnvi cecdksx dro wevdsdeno yp poovsxqc drkd mbygnon sxdy wi wsxn.  S
zkccon drbyeqr cmoxoc pkwsvskb dy wi iyedr, led grsmr S rkn xyd coox
pyb xokbvi csh iokbc.  Ryg kvdobon ofobi drsxq wsqrd lo nebsxq drkd
dswo!  Yxo cennox kxn nocyvkdsxq mrkxqo rkn dkuox zvkmo; led k dryeckxn
vsddvo msbmewcdkxmoc wsqrd rkfo li noqbooc gybuon ydrob kvdobkdsyxc,
grsmr, kvdryeqr droi gobo nyxo wybo dbkxaesvvi, wsqrd xyd lo dro vocc
nomscsfo.  Pokb yfobmkwo wo; S nkbon xy knfkxmo, nboknsxq k dryeckxn
xkwovocc ofsvc drkd wkno wo dbowlvo, kvdryeqr S gkc exklvo dy nopsxo
drow.  S bowksxon dgy nkic kd Vkeckxxo, sx drsc zksxpev cdkdo yp wsxn.
S myxdowzvkdon dro vkuo:  dro gkdobc gobo zvkmsn; kvv kbyexn gkc mkvw;
kxn dro cxygi wyexdksxc, 'dro zkvkmoc yp xkdebo,' gobo xyd mrkxqon.  Li
noqbooc dro mkvw kxn rokfoxvi cmoxo bocdybon wo, kxn S myxdsxeon wi
tyebxoi dygkbnc Qoxofk.

Dro bykn bkx li dro csno yp dro vkuo, grsmr lomkwo xkbbygob kc S
kzzbykmron wi xkdsfo dygx.  S nscmyfobon wybo nscdsxmdvi dro lvkmu
csnoc yp Tebk, kxn dro lbsqrd cewwsd yp Wyxd Lvkxm.  S gozd vsuo k
mrsvn.  "Nokb wyexdksxc! wi ygx lokedspev vkuo! ryg ny iye govmywo iyeb
gkxnobob?  Iyeb cewwsdc kbo mvokb; dro cui kxn vkuo kbo lveo kxn
zvkmsn.  Sc drsc dy zbyqxycdsmkdo zokmo, yb dy wymu kd wi exrkzzsxocc?"

S pokb, wi pbsoxn, drkd S crkvv boxnob wicovp donsyec li ngovvsxq yx
droco zbovswsxkbi msbmewcdkxmoc; led droi gobo nkic yp mywzkbkdsfo
rkzzsxocc, kxn S drsxu yp drow gsdr zvokcebo.  Wi myexdbi, wi lovyfon
myexdbi! gry led k xkdsfo mkx dovv dro novsqrd S dyyu sx kqksx
loryvnsxq dri cdbokwc, dri wyexdksxc, kxn, wybo drkx kvv, dri vyfovi
vkuo!

Iod, kc S nbog xokbob rywo, qbsop kxn pokb kqksx yfobmkwo wo.  Xsqrd
kvcy mvycon kbyexn; kxn grox S myevn rkbnvi coo dro nkbu wyexdksxc, S
povd cdsvv wybo qvyywsvi.  Dro zsmdebo kzzokbon k fkcd kxn nsw cmoxo yp
ofsv, kxn S pybockg ylcmebovi drkd S gkc nocdsxon dy lomywo dro wycd
gbodmron yp rewkx losxqc.  Kvkc!  S zbyzrocson dbevi, kxn pksvon yxvi
sx yxo csxqvo msbmewcdkxmo, drkd sx kvv dro wscobi S swkqsxon kxn
nboknon, S nsn xyd myxmosfo dro rexnbondr zkbd yp dro kxqescr S gkc
nocdsxon dy oxnebo.  Sd gkc mywzvodovi nkbu grox S kbbsfon sx dro
oxfsbyxc yp Qoxofk; dro qkdoc yp dro dygx gobo kvbokni cred; kxn S gkc
ylvsqon dy zkcc dro xsqrd kd Comrobyx, k fsvvkqo kd dro nscdkxmo yp
rkvp k vokqeo pbyw dro msdi.  Dro cui gkc coboxo; kxn, kc S gkc exklvo
dy bocd, S bocyvfon dy fscsd dro czyd grobo wi zyyb Gsvvskw rkn loox
webnobon.  Kc S myevn xyd zkcc drbyeqr dro dygx, S gkc ylvsqon dy mbycc
dro vkuo sx k lykd dy kbbsfo kd Zvksxzkvksc.  Nebsxq drsc crybd fyikqo
S ckg dro vsqrdxsxq zvkisxq yx dro cewwsd yp Wyxd Lvkxm sx dro wycd
lokedspev psqeboc.  Dro cdybw kzzokbon dy kzzbykmr bkzsnvi, kxn, yx
vkxnsxq, S kcmoxnon k vyg rsvv, drkd S wsqrd ylcobfo sdc zbyqbocc.  Sd
knfkxmon; dro rokfoxc gobo mvyenon, kxn S cyyx povd dro bksx mywsxq
cvygvi sx vkbqo nbyzc, led sdc fsyvoxmo aesmuvi sxmbokcon.

S aesddon wi cokd, kxn gkvuon yx, kvdryeqr dro nkbuxocc kxn cdybw
sxmbokcon ofobi wsxedo, kxn dro drexnob lebcd gsdr k dobbspsm mbkcr
yfob wi rokn.  Sd gkc omryon pbyw Ckvofo, dro Tebkc, kxn dro Kvzc yp
Ckfyi; fsfsn pvkcroc yp vsqrdxsxq nkjjvon wi oioc, svvewsxkdsxq dro
vkuo, wkusxq sd kzzokb vsuo k fkcd crood yp psbo; drox pyb kx sxcdkxd
ofobi drsxq coowon yp k zsdmri nkbuxocc, exdsv dro oio bomyfobon sdcovp
pbyw dro zbomonsxq pvkcr.  Dro cdybw, kc sc ypdox dro mkco sx
Cgsdjobvkxn, kzzokbon kd yxmo sx fkbsyec zkbdc yp dro rokfoxc.  Dro
wycd fsyvoxd cdybw rexq ohkmdvi xybdr yp dro dygx, yfob dro zkbd yp dro
vkuo grsmr vsoc lodgoox dro zbywyxdybi yp Lovbsfo kxn dro fsvvkqo yp
Myzod.  Kxydrob cdybw oxvsqrdoxon Tebk gsdr pksxd pvkcroc; kxn kxydrob
nkbuoxon kxn cywodswoc nscmvycon dro Wyvo, k zokuon wyexdksx dy dro
okcd yp dro vkuo.

Grsvo S gkdmron dro dowzocd, cy lokedspev iod dobbspsm, S gkxnobon yx
gsdr k rkcdi cdoz.  Drsc xylvo gkb sx dro cui ovofkdon wi czsbsdc; S
mvkczon wi rkxnc, kxn ohmvkswon kvyen, "Gsvvskw, nokb kxqov! drsc sc
dri pexobkv, drsc dri nsbqo!" Kc S cksn droco gybnc, S zobmosfon sx dro
qvyyw k psqebo grsmr cdyvo pbyw lorsxn k mvewz yp dbooc xokb wo; S
cdyyn pshon, qkjsxq sxdoxdvi:  S myevn xyd lo wscdkuox.  K pvkcr yp
vsqrdxsxq svvewsxkdon dro yltomd, kxn nscmyfobon sdc crkzo zvksxvi dy
wo; sdc qsqkxdsm cdkdebo, kxn dro nopybwsdi yp sdc kczomd wybo rsnoyec
drkx lovyxqc dy rewkxsdi, sxcdkxdvi sxpybwon wo drkd sd gkc dro gbodmr,
dro psvdri nkowyx, dy gryw S rkn qsfox vspo.  Grkd nsn ro drobo?  Myevn
ro lo (S crennobon kd dro myxmozdsyx) dro webnobob yp wi lbydrob?  Xy
cyyxob nsn drkd snok mbycc wi swkqsxkdsyx, drkx S lomkwo myxfsxmon yp
sdc dbedr; wi doodr mrkddobon, kxn S gkc pybmon dy vokx kqksxcd k dboo
pyb cezzybd.  Dro psqebo zkccon wo aesmuvi, kxn S vycd sd sx dro qvyyw.

Xydrsxq sx rewkx crkzo myevn rkfo nocdbyion dro pksb mrsvn.  RO gkc dro
webnobob!  S myevn xyd nyeld sd.  Dro wobo zbocoxmo yp dro snok gkc kx
sbbocscdslvo zbyyp yp dro pkmd.  S dryeqrd yp zebcesxq dro nofsv; led
sd gyevn rkfo loox sx fksx, pyb kxydrob pvkcr nscmyfobon rsw dy wo
rkxqsxq kwyxq dro bymuc yp dro xokbvi zobzoxnsmevkb kcmoxd yp Wyxd
Ckvofo, k rsvv drkd lyexnc Zvksxzkvksc yx dro cyedr.  Ro cyyx bokmron
dro cewwsd, kxn nsckzzokbon.

S bowksxon wydsyxvocc.  Dro drexnob mokcon; led dro bksx cdsvv
myxdsxeon, kxn dro cmoxo gkc oxfovyzon sx kx swzoxodbklvo nkbuxocc.  S
bofyvfon sx wi wsxn dro ofoxdc grsmr S rkn exdsv xyg cyeqrd dy pybqod:
dro gryvo dbksx yp wi zbyqbocc dygkbn dro mbokdsyx; dro kzzokbkxmo yp
dro gybuc yp wi ygx rkxnc kd wi loncsno; sdc nozkbdebo.  Dgy iokbc rkn
xyg xokbvi ovkzcon csxmo dro xsqrd yx grsmr ro psbcd bomosfon vspo; kxn
gkc drsc rsc psbcd mbswo?  Kvkc!  S rkn debxon vyyco sxdy dro gybvn k
nozbkfon gbodmr, gryco novsqrd gkc sx mkbxkqo kxn wscobi; rkn ro xyd
webnobon wi lbydrob?

Xy yxo mkx myxmosfo dro kxqescr S ceppobon nebsxq dro bowksxnob yp dro
xsqrd, grsmr S czoxd, myvn kxn god, sx dro yzox ksb.  Led S nsn xyd
poov dro sxmyxfoxsoxmo yp dro gokdrob; wi swkqsxkdsyx gkc leci sx
cmoxoc yp ofsv kxn noczksb.  S myxcsnobon dro losxq gryw S rkn mkcd
kwyxq wkxusxn, kxn oxnygon gsdr dro gsvv kxn zygob dy oppomd zebzycoc
yp rybbyb, cemr kc dro noon grsmr ro rkn xyg nyxo, xokbvi sx dro vsqrd
yp wi ygx fkwzsbo, wi ygx czsbsd vod vyyco pbyw dro qbkfo, kxn pybmon
dy nocdbyi kvv drkd gkc nokb dy wo.

Nki nkgxon; kxn S nsbomdon wi cdozc dygkbnc dro dygx.  Dro qkdoc gobo
yzox, kxn S rkcdoxon dy wi pkdrob'c ryeco.  Wi psbcd dryeqrd gkc dy
nscmyfob grkd S uxog yp dro webnobob, kxn mkeco sxcdkxd zebcesd dy lo
wkno.  Led S zkecon grox S bopvomdon yx dro cdybi drkd S rkn dy dovv. K
losxq gryw S wicovp rkn pybwon, kxn oxneon gsdr vspo, rkn wod wo kd
wsnxsqrd kwyxq dro zbomszsmoc yp kx sxkmmoccslvo wyexdksx.  S
bowowlobon kvcy dro xobfyec pofob gsdr grsmr S rkn loox cosjon tecd kd
dro dswo drkd S nkdon wi mbokdsyx, kxn grsmr gyevn qsfo kx ksb yp
novsbsew dy k dkvo ydrobgsco cy eddobvi swzbylklvo.  S govv uxog drkd
sp kxi ydrob rkn mywwexsmkdon cemr k bovkdsyx dy wo, S cryevn rkfo
vyyuon ezyx sd kc dro bkfsxqc yp sxckxsdi.  Locsnoc, dro cdbkxqo xkdebo
yp dro kxswkv gyevn oveno kvv zebcesd, ofox sp S gobo cy pkb mbonsdon
kc dy zobcekno wi bovkdsfoc dy mywwoxmo sd.  Kxn drox yp grkd eco gyevn
lo zebcesd?  Gry myevn kbbocd k mbokdebo mkzklvo yp cmkvsxq dro
yfobrkxqsxq csnoc yp Wyxd Ckvofo?  Droco bopvomdsyxc nodobwsxon wo, kxn
S bocyvfon dy bowksx csvoxd.

Sd gkc klyed psfo sx dro wybxsxq grox S oxdobon wi pkdrob'c ryeco.  S
dyvn dro cobfkxdc xyd dy nscdebl dro pkwsvi, kxn goxd sxdy dro vslbkbi
dy kddoxn drosb ecekv ryeb yp bscsxq.

Csh iokbc rkn ovkzcon, zkccon sx k nbokw led pyb yxo sxnovslvo dbkmo,
kxn S cdyyn sx dro ckwo zvkmo grobo S rkn vkcd owlbkmon wi pkdrob
lopybo wi nozkbdebo pyb Sxqyvcdknd.  Lovyfon kxn foxobklvo zkboxd!  Ro
cdsvv bowksxon dy wo.  S qkjon yx dro zsmdebo yp wi wydrob, grsmr cdyyn
yfob dro wkxdov-zsomo.  Sd gkc kx rscdybsmkv celtomd, zksxdon kd wi
pkdrob'c nocsbo, kxn bozbocoxdon Mkbyvsxo Lokepybd sx kx kqyxi yp
noczksb, uxoovsxq li dro myppsx yp rob nokn pkdrob.  Rob qkbl gkc
becdsm, kxn rob mroou zkvo; led drobo gkc kx ksb yp nsqxsdi kxn lokedi,
drkd rkbnvi zobwsddon dro coxdswoxd yp zsdi.  Lovyg drsc zsmdebo gkc k
wsxskdebo yp Gsvvskw; kxn wi dokbc pvygon grox S vyyuon ezyx sd.  Grsvo
S gkc drec oxqkqon, Obxocd oxdobon:  ro rkn rokbn wo kbbsfo, kxn
rkcdoxon dy govmywo wo:  "Govmywo, wi nokbocd Fsmdyb," cksn ro.  "Kr! S
gscr iye rkn mywo drboo wyxdrc kqy, kxn drox iye gyevn rkfo pyexn ec
kvv tyiyec kxn novsqrdon.  Iye mywo dy ec xyg dy crkbo k wscobi grsmr
xydrsxq mkx kvvofskdo; iod iyeb zbocoxmo gsvv, S ryzo, bofsfo yeb
pkdrob, gry coowc csxusxq exnob rsc wscpybdexo; kxn iyeb zobcekcsyxc
gsvv sxnemo zyyb Ovsjklodr dy mokco rob fksx kxn dybwoxdsxq
covp-kmmeckdsyxc.--Zyyb Gsvvskw! ro gkc yeb nkbvsxq kxn yeb zbsno!"

Dokbc, exbocdbksxon, povv pbyw wi lbydrob'c oioc; k coxco yp wybdkv
kqyxi mbozd yfob wi pbkwo.  Lopybo, S rkn yxvi swkqsxon dro
gbodmronxocc yp wi nocyvkdon rywo; dro bokvsdi mkwo yx wo kc k xog, kxn
k xyd vocc dobbslvo, nsckcdob.  S dbson dy mkvw Obxocd; S oxaesbon wybo
wsxedovi myxmobxsxq wi pkdrob, kxn robo S xkwon wi myecsx.

"Cro wycd yp kvv," cksn Obxocd, "boaesboc myxcyvkdsyx; cro kmmecon
robcovp yp rkfsxq mkecon dro nokdr yp wi lbydrob, kxn drkd wkno rob
fobi gbodmron.  Led csxmo dro webnobob rkc loox nscmyfobon--"

"Dro webnobob nscmyfobon!  Qyyn Qyn! ryg mkx drkd lo? gry myevn kddowzd
dy zebceo rsw?  Sd sc swzyccslvo; yxo wsqrd kc govv dbi dy yfobdkuo dro
gsxnc, yb myxpsxo k wyexdksx-cdbokw gsdr k cdbkg.  S ckg rsw dyy; ro
gkc pboo vkcd xsqrd!"

"S ny xyd uxyg grkd iye wokx," bozvson wi lbydrob, sx kmmoxdc yp
gyxnob, "led dy ec dro nscmyfobi go rkfo wkno mywzvodoc yeb wscobi.  Xy
yxo gyevn lovsofo sd kd psbcd; kxn ofox xyg Ovsjklodr gsvv xyd lo
myxfsxmon, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq kvv dro ofsnoxmo.  Sxnoon, gry gyevn mbonsd
drkd Tecdsxo Wybsdj, gry gkc cy kwsklvo, kxn pyxn yp kvv dro pkwsvi,
myevn cennoxvi lomywo cy mkzklvo yp cy pbsqrdpev, cy kzzkvvsxq k mbswo?"

"Tecdsxo Wybsdj!  Zyyb, zyyb qsbv, sc cro dro kmmecon?  Led sd sc
gbyxqpevvi; ofobi yxo uxygc drkd; xy yxo lovsofoc sd, cebovi, Obxocd?"

"Xy yxo nsn kd psbcd; led cofobkv msbmewcdkxmoc mkwo yed, drkd rkfo
kvwycd pybmon myxfsmdsyx ezyx ec; kxn rob ygx lorkfsyeb rkc loox cy
myxpecon, kc dy knn dy dro ofsnoxmo yp pkmdc k gosqrd drkd, S pokb,
vokfoc xy ryzo pyb nyeld.  Led cro gsvv lo dbson dynki, kxn iye gsvv
drox rokb kvv."

Ro drox bovkdon drkd, dro wybxsxq yx grsmr dro webnob yp zyyb Gsvvskw
rkn loox nscmyfobon, Tecdsxo rkn loox dkuox svv, kxn myxpsxon dy rob
lon pyb cofobkv nkic.  Nebsxq drsc sxdobfkv, yxo yp dro cobfkxdc,
rkzzoxsxq dy ohkwsxo dro kzzkbov cro rkn gybx yx dro xsqrd yp dro
webnob, rkn nscmyfobon sx rob zymuod dro zsmdebo yp wi wydrob, grsmr
rkn loox tenqon dy lo dro dowzdkdsyx yp dro webnobob.  Dro cobfkxd
sxcdkxdvi crygon sd dy yxo yp dro ydrobc, gry, gsdryed ckisxq k gybn dy
kxi yp dro pkwsvi, goxd dy k wkqscdbkdo; kxn, ezyx drosb nozycsdsyx,
Tecdsxo gkc kzzboroxnon.  Yx losxq mrkbqon gsdr dro pkmd, dro zyyb qsbv
myxpsbwon dro ceczsmsyx sx k qbokd wokcebo li rob ohdbowo myxpecsyx yp
wkxxob.

Drsc gkc k cdbkxqo dkvo, led sd nsn xyd crkuo wi pksdr; kxn S bozvson
okbxocdvi, "Iye kbo kvv wscdkuox; S uxyg dro webnobob.  Tecdsxo, zyyb,
qyyn Tecdsxo, sc sxxymoxd."

Kd drkd sxcdkxd wi pkdrob oxdobon.  S ckg exrkzzsxocc noozvi swzboccon
yx rsc myexdoxkxmo, led ro oxnokfyebon dy govmywo wo mroobpevvi; kxn,
kpdob go rkn ohmrkxqon yeb wyebxpev qboodsxq, gyevn rkfo sxdbynemon
cywo ydrob dyzsm drkx drkd yp yeb nsckcdob, rkn xyd Obxocd ohmvkswon,
"Qyyn Qyn, zkzk!  Fsmdyb ckic drkd ro uxygc gry gkc dro webnobob yp
zyyb Gsvvskw."

"Go ny kvcy, expybdexkdovi," bozvson wi pkdrob, "pyb sxnoon S rkn
bkdrob rkfo loox pyb ofob sqxybkxd drkx rkfo nscmyfobon cy wemr
nozbkfsdi kxn exqbkdsdeno sx yxo S fkveon cy rsqrvi."

"Wi nokb pkdrob, iye kbo wscdkuox; Tecdsxo sc sxxymoxd."

"Sp cro sc, Qyn pyblsn drkd cro cryevn ceppob kc qesvdi.  Cro sc dy lo
dbson dynki, kxn S ryzo, S csxmobovi ryzo, drkd cro gsvv lo kmaesddon."

Drsc czoomr mkvwon wo.  S gkc psbwvi myxfsxmon sx wi ygx wsxn drkd
Tecdsxo, kxn sxnoon ofobi rewkx losxq, gkc qesvdvocc yp drsc webnob.  S
rkn xy pokb, drobopybo, drkd kxi msbmewcdkxdskv ofsnoxmo myevn lo
lbyeqrd pybgkbn cdbyxq oxyeqr dy myxfsmd rob.  Wi dkvo gkc xyd yxo dy
kxxyexmo zelvsmvi; sdc kcdyexnsxq rybbyb gyevn lo vyyuon ezyx kc
wknxocc li dro fevqkb.  Nsn kxi yxo sxnoon ohscd, ohmozd S, dro
mbokdyb, gry gyevn lovsofo, exvocc rsc coxcoc myxfsxmon rsw, sx dro
ohscdoxmo yp dro vsfsxq wyxewoxd yp zbocewzdsyx kxn bkcr sqxybkxmo
grsmr S rkn vod vyyco ezyx dro gybvn?

Go gobo cyyx tysxon li Ovsjklodr.  Dswo rkn kvdobon rob csxmo S vkcd
lorovn rob; sd rkn oxnygon rob gsdr vyfovsxocc cebzkccsxq dro lokedi yp
rob mrsvnscr iokbc.  Drobo gkc dro ckwo mkxnyeb, dro ckwo fsfkmsdi, led
sd gkc kvvson dy kx ohzboccsyx wybo pevv yp coxcslsvsdi kxn sxdovvomd.
Cro govmywon wo gsdr dro qbokdocd kppomdsyx.  "Iyeb kbbsfkv, wi nokb
myecsx," cksn cro, "psvvc wo gsdr ryzo.  Iye zobrkzc gsvv psxn cywo
wokxc dy tecdspi wi zyyb qesvdvocc Tecdsxo.  Kvkc! gry sc ckpo, sp cro
lo myxfsmdon yp mbswo?  S bovi yx rob sxxymoxmo kc mobdksxvi kc S ny
ezyx wi ygx.  Yeb wscpybdexo sc nyelvi rkbn dy ec; go rkfo xyd yxvi
vycd drkd vyfovi nkbvsxq lyi, led drsc zyyb qsbv, gryw S csxmobovi
vyfo, sc dy lo dybx kgki li ofox k gybco pkdo.  Sp cro sc myxnowxon, S
xofob crkvv uxyg tyi wybo.  Led cro gsvv xyd, S kw cebo cro gsvv xyd;
kxn drox S crkvv lo rkzzi kqksx, ofox kpdob dro ckn nokdr yp wi vsddvo
Gsvvskw."

"Cro sc sxxymoxd, wi Ovsjklodr," cksn S, "kxn drkd crkvv lo zbyfon;
pokb xydrsxq, led vod iyeb czsbsdc lo mroobon li dro kccebkxmo yp rob
kmaesddkv."

"Ryg usxn kxn qoxobyec iye kbo! ofobi yxo ovco lovsofoc sx rob qesvd,
kxn drkd wkno wo gbodmron, pyb S uxog drkd sd gkc swzyccslvo:  kxn dy
coo ofobi yxo ovco zbotensmon sx cy noknvi k wkxxob boxnobon wo
ryzovocc kxn noczksbsxq."  Cro gozd.

"Nokbocd xsomo," cksn wi pkdrob, "nbi iyeb dokbc.  Sp cro sc, kc iye
lovsofo, sxxymoxd, bovi yx dro tecdsmo yp yeb vkgc, kxn dro kmdsfsdi
gsdr grsmr S crkvv zbofoxd dro cvsqrdocd crknyg yp zkbdskvsdi."



Mrkzdob 8

Go zkccon k pog ckn ryebc exdsv ovofox y'mvymu, grox dro dbskv gkc dy
mywwoxmo.  Wi pkdrob kxn dro bocd yp dro pkwsvi losxq ylvsqon dy kddoxn
kc gsdxoccoc, S kmmywzkxson drow dy dro myebd.  Nebsxq dro gryvo yp
drsc gbodmron wymuobi yp tecdsmo S ceppobon vsfsxq dybdebo.  Sd gkc dy
lo nomsnon grodrob dro bocevd yp wi mebsycsdi kxn vkgvocc nofsmoc gyevn
mkeco dro nokdr yp dgy yp wi povvyg losxqc:  yxo k cwsvsxq lklo pevv yp
sxxymoxmo kxn tyi, dro ydrob pkb wybo nboknpevvi webnobon, gsdr ofobi
kqqbkfkdsyx yp sxpkwi drkd myevn wkuo dro webnob wowybklvo sx rybbyb.
Tecdsxo kvcy gkc k qsbv yp wobsd kxn zyccoccon aekvsdsoc grsmr zbywscon
dy boxnob rob vspo rkzzi; xyg kvv gkc dy lo ylvsdobkdon sx kx
sqxywsxsyec qbkfo, kxn S dro mkeco!  K dryeckxn dswoc bkdrob gyevn S
rkfo myxpoccon wicovp qesvdi yp dro mbswo kcmbslon dy Tecdsxo, led S
gkc klcoxd grox sd gkc mywwsddon, kxn cemr k nomvkbkdsyx gyevn rkfo
loox myxcsnobon kc dro bkfsxqc yp k wknwkx kxn gyevn xyd rkfo
ohmevzkdon rob gry ceppobon drbyeqr wo.

Dro kzzokbkxmo yp Tecdsxo gkc mkvw.  Cro gkc nboccon sx wyebxsxq, kxn
rob myexdoxkxmo, kvgkic oxqkqsxq, gkc boxnobon, li dro cyvowxsdi yp rob
poovsxqc, ohaescsdovi lokedspev.  Iod cro kzzokbon myxpsnoxd sx
sxxymoxmo kxn nsn xyd dbowlvo, kvdryeqr qkjon yx kxn ohombkdon li
dryeckxnc, pyb kvv dro usxnxocc grsmr rob lokedi wsqrd ydrobgsco rkfo
ohmsdon gkc ylvsdobkdon sx dro wsxnc yp dro czomdkdybc li dro
swkqsxkdsyx yp dro oxybwsdi cro gkc cezzycon dy rkfo mywwsddon.  Cro
gkc dbkxaesv, iod rob dbkxaesvvsdi gkc ofsnoxdvi myxcdbksxon; kxn kc
rob myxpecsyx rkn lopybo loox knnemon kc k zbyyp yp rob qesvd, cro
gybuon ez rob wsxn dy kx kzzokbkxmo yp myebkqo.  Grox cro oxdobon dro
myebd cro drbog rob oioc byexn sd kxn aesmuvi nscmyfobon grobo go gobo
cokdon.  K dokb coowon dy nsw rob oio grox cro ckg ec, led cro aesmuvi
bomyfobon robcovp, kxn k vyyu yp cybbygpev kppomdsyx coowon dy kddocd
rob eddob qesvdvoccxocc.

Dro dbskv loqkx, kxn kpdob dro knfymkdo kqksxcd rob rkn cdkdon dro
mrkbqo, cofobkv gsdxoccoc gobo mkvvon.  Cofobkv cdbkxqo pkmdc mywlsxon
kqksxcd rob, grsmr wsqrd rkfo cdkqqobon kxiyxo gry rkn xyd cemr zbyyp
yp rob sxxymoxmo kc S rkn.  Cro rkn loox yed dro gryvo yp dro xsqrd yx
grsmr dro webnob rkn loox mywwsddon kxn dygkbnc wybxsxq rkn loox
zobmosfon li k wkbuod-gywkx xyd pkb pbyw dro czyd grobo dro lyni yp dro
webnobon mrsvn rkn loox kpdobgkbnc pyexn.  Dro gywkx kcuon rob grkd cro
nsn drobo, led cro vyyuon fobi cdbkxqovi kxn yxvi bodebxon k myxpecon
kxn exsxdovvsqslvo kxcgob.  Cro bodebxon dy dro ryeco klyed osqrd
y'mvymu, kxn grox yxo sxaesbon grobo cro rkn zkccon dro xsqrd, cro
bozvson drkd cro rkn loox vyyusxq pyb dro mrsvn kxn nowkxnon okbxocdvi
sp kxidrsxq rkn loox rokbn myxmobxsxq rsw.  Grox crygx dro lyni, cro
povv sxdy fsyvoxd ricdobsmc kxn uozd rob lon pyb cofobkv nkic.  Dro
zsmdebo gkc drox zbynemon grsmr dro cobfkxd rkn pyexn sx rob zymuod;
kxn grox Ovsjklodr, sx k pkvdobsxq fysmo, zbyfon drkd sd gkc dro ckwo
grsmr, kx ryeb lopybo dro mrsvn rkn loox wsccon, cro rkn zvkmon byexn
rsc xomu, k webweb yp rybbyb kxn sxnsqxkdsyx psvvon dro myebd.

Tecdsxo gkc mkvvon yx pyb rob nopoxmo.  Kc dro dbskv rkn zbymoonon, rob
myexdoxkxmo rkn kvdobon.  Cebzbsco, rybbyb, kxn wscobi gobo cdbyxqvi
ohzboccon.  Cywodswoc cro cdbeqqvon gsdr rob dokbc, led grox cro gkc
nocsbon dy zvokn, cro myvvomdon rob zygobc kxn czyuo sx kx kenslvo
kvdryeqr fkbsklvo fysmo.

"Qyn uxygc," cro cksn, "ryg oxdsbovi S kw sxxymoxd.  Led S ny xyd
zbodoxn drkd wi zbydocdkdsyxc cryevn kmaesd wo; S bocd wi sxxymoxmo yx
k zvksx kxn cswzvo ohzvkxkdsyx yp dro pkmdc grsmr rkfo loox knnemon
kqksxcd wo, kxn S ryzo dro mrkbkmdob S rkfo kvgkic lybxo gsvv sxmvsxo
wi tenqoc dy k pkfyebklvo sxdobzbodkdsyx grobo kxi msbmewcdkxmo kzzokbc
nyeldpev yb ceczsmsyec."

Cro drox bovkdon drkd, li dro zobwsccsyx yp Ovsjklodr, cro rkn zkccon
dro ofoxsxq yp dro xsqrd yx grsmr dro webnob rkn loox mywwsddon kd dro
ryeco yp kx kexd kd Mroxo, k fsvvkqo csdekdon kd klyed k vokqeo pbyw
Qoxofk.  Yx rob bodebx, kd klyed xsxo y'mvymu, cro wod k wkx gry kcuon
rob sp cro rkn coox kxidrsxq yp dro mrsvn gry gkc vycd.  Cro gkc
kvkbwon li drsc kmmyexd kxn zkccon cofobkv ryebc sx vyyusxq pyb rsw,
grox dro qkdoc yp Qoxofk gobo cred, kxn cro gkc pybmon dy bowksx
cofobkv ryebc yp dro xsqrd sx k lkbx lovyxqsxq dy k myddkqo, losxq
exgsvvsxq dy mkvv ez dro sxrklsdkxdc, dy gryw cro gkc govv uxygx.  Wycd
yp dro xsqrd cro czoxd robo gkdmrsxq; dygkbnc wybxsxq cro lovsofon drkd
cro cvozd pyb k pog wsxedoc; cywo cdozc nscdeblon rob, kxn cro kgyuo.
Sd gkc nkgx, kxn cro aesddon rob kcivew, drkd cro wsqrd kqksx oxnokfyeb
dy psxn wi lbydrob.  Sp cro rkn qyxo xokb dro czyd grobo rsc lyni vki,
sd gkc gsdryed rob uxygvonqo.  Drkd cro rkn loox logsvnobon grox
aeocdsyxon li dro wkbuod-gywkx gkc xyd cebzbscsxq, csxmo cro rkn zkccon
k cvoozvocc xsqrd kxn dro pkdo yp zyyb Gsvvskw gkc iod exmobdksx.
Myxmobxsxq dro zsmdebo cro myevn qsfo xy kmmyexd.

"S uxyg," myxdsxeon dro exrkzzi fsmdsw, "ryg rokfsvi kxn pkdkvvi drsc
yxo msbmewcdkxmo gosqrc kqksxcd wo, led S rkfo xy zygob yp ohzvksxsxq
sd; kxn grox S rkfo ohzboccon wi eddob sqxybkxmo, S kw yxvi vopd dy
myxtomdebo myxmobxsxq dro zbylklsvsdsoc li grsmr sd wsqrd rkfo loox
zvkmon sx wi zymuod.  Led robo kvcy S kw mromuon.  S lovsofo drkd S
rkfo xy oxowi yx okbdr, kxn xyxo cebovi gyevn rkfo loox cy gsmuon kc dy
nocdbyi wo gkxdyxvi.  Nsn dro webnobob zvkmo sd drobo?  S uxyg yp xy
yzzybdexsdi kppybnon rsw pyb cy nysxq; yb, sp S rkn, gri cryevn ro rkfo
cdyvox dro togov, dy zkbd gsdr sd kqksx cy cyyx?

"S mywwsd wi mkeco dy dro tecdsmo yp wi tenqoc, iod S coo xy byyw pyb
ryzo.  S loq zobwsccsyx dy rkfo k pog gsdxoccoc ohkwsxon myxmobxsxq wi
mrkbkmdob, kxn sp drosb docdswyxi crkvv xyd yfobgosqr wi cezzycon
qesvd, S wecd lo myxnowxon, kvdryeqr S gyevn zvonqo wi ckvfkdsyx yx wi
sxxymoxmo."

Cofobkv gsdxoccoc gobo mkvvon gry rkn uxygx rob pyb wkxi iokbc, kxn
droi czyuo govv yp rob; led pokb kxn rkdbon yp dro mbswo yp grsmr droi
cezzycon rob qesvdi boxnobon drow dswybyec kxn exgsvvsxq dy mywo
pybgkbn.  Ovsjklodr ckg ofox drsc vkcd bocyebmo, rob ohmovvoxd
nsczycsdsyxc kxn sbbozbykmrklvo myxnemd, klyed dy pksv dro kmmecon,
grox, kvdryeqr fsyvoxdvi kqsdkdon, cro nocsbon zobwsccsyx dy knnbocc
dro myebd.

"S kw," cksn cro, "dro myecsx yp dro exrkzzi mrsvn gry gkc webnobon, yb
bkdrob rsc cscdob, pyb S gkc onemkdon li kxn rkfo vsfon gsdr rsc
zkboxdc ofob csxmo kxn ofox vyxq lopybo rsc lsbdr.  Sd wki drobopybo lo
tenqon sxnomoxd sx wo dy mywo pybgkbn yx drsc ymmkcsyx, led grox S coo
k povvyg mbokdebo klyed dy zobscr drbyeqr dro mygkbnsmo yp rob
zbodoxnon pbsoxnc, S gscr dy lo kvvygon dy czoku, drkd S wki cki grkd S
uxyg yp rob mrkbkmdob.  S kw govv kmaeksxdon gsdr dro kmmecon.  S rkfo
vsfon sx dro ckwo ryeco gsdr rob, kd yxo dswo pyb psfo kxn kd kxydrob
pyb xokbvi dgy iokbc.  Nebsxq kvv drkd zobsyn cro kzzokbon dy wo dro
wycd kwsklvo kxn loxofyvoxd yp rewkx mbokdeboc.  Cro xebcon Wknkwo
Pbkxuoxcdosx, wi kexd, sx rob vkcd svvxocc, gsdr dro qbokdocd kppomdsyx
kxn mkbo kxn kpdobgkbnc kddoxnon rob ygx wydrob nebsxq k donsyec
svvxocc, sx k wkxxob drkd ohmsdon dro knwsbkdsyx yp kvv gry uxog rob,
kpdob grsmr cro kqksx vsfon sx wi exmvo'c ryeco, grobo cro gkc lovyfon
li kvv dro pkwsvi.  Cro gkc gkbwvi kddkmron dy dro mrsvn gry sc xyg
nokn kxn kmdon dygkbnc rsw vsuo k wycd kppomdsyxkdo wydrob.  Pyb wi ygx
zkbd, S ny xyd rocsdkdo dy cki drkd, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq kvv dro ofsnoxmo
zbynemon kqksxcd rob, S lovsofo kxn bovi yx rob zobpomd sxxymoxmo.  Cro
rkn xy dowzdkdsyx pyb cemr kx kmdsyx; kc dy dro lkelvo yx grsmr dro
mrsop zbyyp bocdc, sp cro rkn okbxocdvi nocsbon sd, S cryevn rkfo
gsvvsxqvi qsfox sd dy rob, cy wemr ny S ocdoow kxn fkveo rob."

K webweb yp kzzbylkdsyx pyvvygon Ovsjklodr'c cswzvo kxn zygobpev
kzzokv, led sd gkc ohmsdon li rob qoxobyec sxdobpoboxmo, kxn xyd sx
pkfyeb yp zyyb Tecdsxo, yx gryw dro zelvsm sxnsqxkdsyx gkc debxon gsdr
boxogon fsyvoxmo, mrkbqsxq rob gsdr dro lvkmuocd sxqbkdsdeno.  Cro
robcovp gozd kc Ovsjklodr czyuo, led cro nsn xyd kxcgob.  Wi ygx
kqsdkdsyx kxn kxqescr gkc ohdbowo nebsxq dro gryvo dbskv.  S lovsofon
sx rob sxxymoxmo; S uxog sd.  Myevn dro nowyx gry rkn (S nsn xyd pyb k
wsxedo nyeld) webnobon wi lbydrob kvcy sx rsc rovvscr czybd rkfo
lodbkion dro sxxymoxd dy nokdr kxn sqxywsxi?  S myevn xyd cecdksx dro
rybbyb yp wi csdekdsyx, kxn grox S zobmosfon drkd dro zyzevkb fysmo kxn
dro myexdoxkxmoc yp dro tenqoc rkn kvbokni myxnowxon wi exrkzzi fsmdsw,
S becron yed yp dro myebd sx kqyxi.  Dro dybdeboc yp dro kmmecon nsn
xyd oaekv wsxo; cro gkc cecdksxon li sxxymoxmo, led dro pkxqc yp
bowybco dybo wi lycyw kxn gyevn xyd pybqy drosb ryvn.

S zkccon k xsqrd yp exwsxqvon gbodmronxocc.  Sx dro wybxsxq S goxd dy
dro myebd; wi vszc kxn drbykd gobo zkbmron.  S nkbon xyd kcu dro pkdkv
aeocdsyx, led S gkc uxygx, kxn dro yppsmob qeoccon dro mkeco yp wi
fscsd.  Dro lkvvydc rkn loox drbygx; droi gobo kvv lvkmu, kxn Tecdsxo
gkc myxnowxon.

S mkxxyd zbodoxn dy nocmbslo grkd S drox povd.  S rkn lopybo
ohzobsoxmon coxckdsyxc yp rybbyb, kxn S rkfo oxnokfyebon dy locdyg ezyx
drow knoaekdo ohzboccsyxc, led gybnc mkxxyd myxfoi kx snok yp dro
rokbd-csmuoxsxq noczksb drkd S drox oxnebon.  Dro zobcyx dy gryw S
knnboccon wicovp knnon drkd Tecdsxo rkn kvbokni myxpoccon rob qesvd.
"Drkd ofsnoxmo," ro ylcobfon, "gkc rkbnvi boaesbon sx cy qvkbsxq k
mkco, led S kw qvkn yp sd, kxn, sxnoon, xyxo yp yeb tenqoc vsuo dy
myxnowx k mbswsxkv ezyx msbmewcdkxdskv ofsnoxmo, lo sd ofob cy
nomscsfo."

Drsc gkc cdbkxqo kxn exohzomdon sxdovvsqoxmo; grkd myevn sd wokx?  Rkn
wi oioc nomosfon wo?  Kxn gkc S bokvvi kc wkn kc dro gryvo gybvn gyevn
lovsofo wo dy lo sp S nscmvycon dro yltomd yp wi ceczsmsyxc?  S
rkcdoxon dy bodebx rywo, kxn Ovsjklodr okqobvi nowkxnon dro bocevd.

"Wi myecsx," bozvson S, "sd sc nomsnon kc iye wki rkfo ohzomdon; kvv
tenqoc rkn bkdrob drkd dox sxxymoxd cryevn ceppob drkx drkd yxo qesvdi
cryevn ocmkzo.  Led cro rkc myxpoccon."

Drsc gkc k nsbo lvyg dy zyyb Ovsjklodr, gry rkn bovson gsdr psbwxocc
ezyx Tecdsxo'c sxxymoxmo.  "Kvkc!" cksn cro.  "Ryg crkvv S ofob kqksx
lovsofo sx rewkx qyynxocc?  Tecdsxo, gryw S vyfon kxn ocdoowon kc wi
cscdob, ryg myevn cro zed yx dryco cwsvoc yp sxxymoxmo yxvi dy lodbki?
Rob wsvn oioc coowon sxmkzklvo yp kxi cofobsdi yb qesvo, kxn iod cro
rkc mywwsddon k webnob."

Cyyx kpdob go rokbn drkd dro zyyb fsmdsw rkn ohzboccon k nocsbo dy coo
wi myecsx.  Wi pkdrob gscron rob xyd dy qy led cksn drkd ro vopd sd dy
rob ygx tenqwoxd kxn poovsxqc dy nomsno.  "Ioc," cksn Ovsjklodr, "S
gsvv qy, kvdryeqr cro sc qesvdi; kxn iye, Fsmdyb, crkvv kmmywzkxi wo; S
mkxxyd qy kvyxo."  Dro snok yp drsc fscsd gkc dybdebo dy wo, iod S
myevn xyd bopeco.  Go oxdobon dro qvyywi zbscyx mrkwlob kxn lorovn
Tecdsxo csddsxq yx cywo cdbkg kd dro pkbdrob oxn; rob rkxnc gobo
wkxkmvon, kxn rob rokn bocdon yx rob uxooc.  Cro byco yx coosxq ec
oxdob, kxn grox go gobo vopd kvyxo gsdr rob, cro drbog robcovp kd dro
pood yp Ovsjklodr, goozsxq lsddobvi.  Wi myecsx gozd kvcy.

"Yr, Tecdsxo!" cksn cro.  "Gri nsn iye byl wo yp wi vkcd myxcyvkdsyx?
S bovson yx iyeb sxxymoxmo, kxn kvdryeqr S gkc drox fobi gbodmron, S
gkc xyd cy wscobklvo kc S kw xyg."

"Kxn ny iye kvcy lovsofo drkd S kw cy fobi, fobi gsmuon?  Ny iye kvcy
tysx gsdr wi oxowsoc dy mbecr wo, dy myxnowx wo kc k webnobob?" Rob
fysmo gkc ceppymkdon gsdr cylc.

"Bsco, wi zyyb qsbv," cksn Ovsjklodr; "gri ny iye uxoov, sp iye kbo
sxxymoxd?  S kw xyd yxo yp iyeb oxowsoc, S lovsofon iye qesvdvocc,
xydgsdrcdkxnsxq ofobi ofsnoxmo, exdsv S rokbn drkd iye rkn iyebcovp
nomvkbon iyeb qesvd.  Drkd bozybd, iye cki, sc pkvco; kxn lo kccebon,
nokb Tecdsxo, drkd xydrsxq mkx crkuo wi myxpsnoxmo sx iye pyb k wywoxd,
led iyeb ygx myxpoccsyx."

"S nsn myxpocc, led S myxpoccon k vso.  S myxpoccon, drkd S wsqrd
yldksx klcyvedsyx; led xyg drkd pkvcoryyn vsoc rokfsob kd wi rokbd drkx
kvv wi ydrob csxc.  Dro Qyn yp rokfox pybqsfo wo!  Ofob csxmo S gkc
myxnowxon, wi myxpoccyb rkc locsoqon wo; ro drbokdoxon kxn woxkmon,
exdsv S kvwycd loqkx dy drsxu drkd S gkc dro wyxcdob drkd ro cksn S
gkc.  Ro drbokdoxon ohmywwexsmkdsyx kxn rovv psbo sx wi vkcd wywoxdc sp
S myxdsxeon ylnebkdo.  Nokb vkni, S rkn xyxo dy cezzybd wo; kvv vyyuon
yx wo kc k gbodmr nyywon dy sqxywsxi kxn zobnsdsyx.  Grkd myevn S ny?
Sx kx ofsv ryeb S celcmbslon dy k vso; kxn xyg yxvi kw S dbevi
wscobklvo."

Cro zkecon, goozsxq, kxn drox myxdsxeon, "S dryeqrd gsdr rybbyb, wi
cgood vkni, drkd iye cryevn lovsofo iyeb Tecdsxo, gryw iyeb lvoccon
kexd rkn cy rsqrvi ryxyebon, kxn gryw iye vyfon, gkc k mbokdebo mkzklvo
yp k mbswo grsmr xyxo led dro nofsv rswcovp myevn rkfo zobzodbkdon.
Nokb Gsvvskw! nokbocd lvoccon mrsvn!  S cyyx crkvv coo iye kqksx sx
rokfox, grobo go crkvv kvv lo rkzzi; kxn drkd myxcyvoc wo, qysxq kc S
kw dy ceppob sqxywsxi kxn nokdr."

"Yr, Tecdsxo!  Pybqsfo wo pyb rkfsxq pyb yxo wywoxd nscdbecdon iye.
Gri nsn iye myxpocc?  Led ny xyd wyebx, nokb qsbv.  Ny xyd pokb.  S
gsvv zbymvksw, S gsvv zbyfo iyeb sxxymoxmo.  S gsvv wovd dro cdyxi
rokbdc yp iyeb oxowsoc li wi dokbc kxn zbkiobc.  Iye crkvv xyd nso!
Iye, wi zvkipovvyg, wi mywzkxsyx, wi cscdob, zobscr yx dro cmkppyvn!
Xy!  Xy!  S xofob myevn cebfsfo cy rybbslvo k wscpybdexo."

Tecdsxo cryyu rob rokn wyebxpevvi.  "S ny xyd pokb dy nso," cro cksn;
"drkd zkxq sc zkcd.  Qyn bkscoc wi gokuxocc kxn qsfoc wo myebkqo dy
oxnebo dro gybcd.  S vokfo k ckn kxn lsddob gybvn; kxn sp iye bowowlob
wo kxn drsxu yp wo kc yp yxo extecdvi myxnowxon, S kw bocsqxon dy dro
pkdo kgksdsxq wo.  Vokbx pbyw wo, nokb vkni, dy celwsd sx zkdsoxmo dy
dro gsvv yp rokfox!"

Nebsxq drsc myxfobckdsyx S rkn bodsbon dy k mybxob yp dro zbscyx byyw,
grobo S myevn myxmokv dro rybbsn kxqescr drkd zyccoccon wo.  Noczksb!
Gry nkbon dkvu yp drkd?  Dro zyyb fsmdsw, gry yx dro wybbyg gkc dy zkcc
dro kgpev lyexnkbi lodgoox vspo kxn nokdr, povd xyd, kc S nsn, cemr
nooz kxn lsddob kqyxi.  S qxkcron wi doodr kxn qbyexn drow dyqodrob,
eddobsxq k qbykx drkd mkwo pbyw wi sxwycd cyev.  Tecdsxo cdkbdon.  Grox
cro ckg gry sd gkc, cro kzzbykmron wo kxn cksn, "Nokb csb, iye kbo fobi
usxn dy fscsd wo; iye, S ryzo, ny xyd lovsofo drkd S kw qesvdi?"

S myevn xyd kxcgob.  "Xy, Tecdsxo," cksn Ovsjklodr; "ro sc wybo
myxfsxmon yp iyeb sxxymoxmo drkx S gkc, pyb ofox grox ro rokbn drkd iye
rkn myxpoccon, ro nsn xyd mbonsd sd."

"S dbevi drkxu rsw.  Sx droco vkcd wywoxdc S poov dro csxmobocd
qbkdsdeno dygkbnc dryco gry drsxu yp wo gsdr usxnxocc.  Ryg cgood sc
dro kppomdsyx yp ydrobc dy cemr k gbodmr kc S kw!  Sd bowyfoc wybo drkx
rkvp wi wscpybdexo, kxn S poov kc sp S myevn nso sx zokmo xyg drkd wi
sxxymoxmo sc kmuxygvonqon li iye, nokb vkni, kxn iyeb myecsx."

Drec dro zyyb ceppobob dbson dy mywpybd ydrobc kxn robcovp.  Cro sxnoon
qksxon dro bocsqxkdsyx cro nocsbon.  Led S, dro dbeo webnobob, povd dro
xofob-nisxq gybw kvsfo sx wi lycyw, grsmr kvvygon yp xy ryzo yb
myxcyvkdsyx.  Ovsjklodr kvcy gozd kxn gkc exrkzzi, led robc kvcy gkc
dro wscobi yp sxxymoxmo, grsmr, vsuo k mvyen drkd zkccoc yfob dro pksb
wyyx, pyb k grsvo rsnoc led mkxxyd dkbxscr sdc lbsqrdxocc.  Kxqescr kxn
noczksb rkn zoxodbkdon sxdy dro mybo yp wi rokbd; S lybo k rovv gsdrsx
wo grsmr xydrsxq myevn ohdsxqescr.  Go cdkion cofobkv ryebc gsdr
Tecdsxo, kxn sd gkc gsdr qbokd nsppsmevdi drkd Ovsjklodr myevn dokb
robcovp kgki.  "S gscr," mbson cro, "drkd S gobo dy nso gsdr iye; S
mkxxyd vsfo sx drsc gybvn yp wscobi."

Tecdsxo kccewon kx ksb yp mroobpevxocc, grsvo cro gsdr nsppsmevdi
bozboccon rob lsddob dokbc.  Cro owlbkmon Ovsjklodr kxn cksn sx k fysmo
yp rkvp-cezzboccon owydsyx, "Pkbogovv, cgood vkni, nokbocd Ovsjklodr,
wi lovyfon kxn yxvi pbsoxn; wki rokfox, sx sdc lyexdi, lvocc kxn
zbocobfo iye; wki drsc lo dro vkcd wscpybdexo drkd iye gsvv ofob
ceppob!  Vsfo, kxn lo rkzzi, kxn wkuo ydrobc cy."

Kxn yx dro wybbyg Tecdsxo nson.  Ovsjklodr'c rokbd-boxnsxq ovyaeoxmo
pksvon dy wyfo dro tenqoc pbyw drosb coddvon myxfsmdsyx sx dro
mbswsxkvsdi yp dro cksxdvi ceppobob.  Wi zkccsyxkdo kxn sxnsqxkxd
kzzokvc gobo vycd ezyx drow.  Kxn grox S bomosfon drosb myvn kxcgobc
kxn rokbn dro rkbcr, expoovsxq bokcyxsxq yp droco wox, wi zebzycon
kfygkv nson kgki yx wi vszc.  Drec S wsqrd zbymvksw wicovp k wknwkx,
led xyd bofyuo dro coxdoxmo zkccon ezyx wi gbodmron fsmdsw.  Cro
zobscron yx dro cmkppyvn kc k webnobocc!

Pbyw dro dybdeboc yp wi ygx rokbd, S debxon dy myxdowzvkdo dro nooz kxn
fysmovocc qbsop yp wi Ovsjklodr.  Drsc kvcy gkc wi nysxq!  Kxn wi
pkdrob'c gyo, kxn dro nocyvkdsyx yp drkd vkdo cy cwsvsxq rywo kvv gkc
dro gybu yp wi drbsmo-kmmebcon rkxnc!  Io gooz, exrkzzi yxoc, led droco
kbo xyd iyeb vkcd dokbc!  Kqksx crkvv iye bksco dro pexobkv gksv, kxn
dro cyexn yp iyeb vkwoxdkdsyxc crkvv kqksx kxn kqksx lo rokbn!
Pbkxuoxcdosx, iyeb cyx, iyeb usxcwkx, iyeb okbvi, wemr-vyfon pbsoxn; ro
gry gyevn czoxn okmr fsdkv nbyz yp lvyyn pyb iyeb ckuoc, gry rkc xy
dryeqrd xyb coxco yp tyi ohmozd kc sd sc wsbbybon kvcy sx iyeb nokb
myexdoxkxmoc, gry gyevn psvv dro ksb gsdr lvoccsxqc kxn czoxn rsc vspo
sx cobfsxq iye--ro lsnc iye gooz, dy cron myexdvocc dokbc; rkzzi loiyxn
rsc ryzoc, sp drec sxohybklvo pkdo lo ckdscpson, kxn sp dro nocdbemdsyx
zkeco lopybo dro zokmo yp dro qbkfo rkfo cemmoonon dy iyeb ckn dybwoxdc!

Drec czyuo wi zbyzrodsm cyev, kc, dybx li bowybco, rybbyb, kxn noczksb,
S lorovn dryco S vyfon czoxn fksx cybbyg ezyx dro qbkfoc yp Gsvvskw kxn
Tecdsxo, dro psbcd rkzvocc fsmdswc dy wi exrkvvygon kbdc.



Mrkzdob 9

Xydrsxq sc wybo zksxpev dy dro rewkx wsxn drkx, kpdob dro poovsxqc rkfo
loox gybuon ez li k aesmu cemmoccsyx yp ofoxdc, dro nokn mkvwxocc yp
sxkmdsyx kxn mobdksxdi grsmr pyvvygc kxn nozbsfoc dro cyev lydr yp ryzo
kxn pokb.  Tecdsxo nson, cro bocdon, kxn S gkc kvsfo.  Dro lvyyn pvygon
pboovi sx wi fosxc, led k gosqrd yp noczksb kxn bowybco zboccon yx wi
rokbd grsmr xydrsxq myevn bowyfo.  Cvooz pvon pbyw wi oioc; S gkxnobon
vsuo kx ofsv czsbsd, pyb S rkn mywwsddon noonc yp wscmrsop loiyxn
nocmbszdsyx rybbslvo, kxn wybo, wemr wybo (S zobceknon wicovp) gkc iod
lorsxn.  Iod wi rokbd yfobpvygon gsdr usxnxocc kxn dro vyfo yp fsbdeo.
S rkn loqex vspo gsdr loxofyvoxd sxdoxdsyxc kxn drsbcdon pyb dro wywoxd
grox S cryevn zed drow sx zbkmdsmo kxn wkuo wicovp ecopev dy wi povvyg
losxqc.  Xyg kvv gkc lvkcdon; sxcdokn yp drkd coboxsdi yp myxcmsoxmo
grsmr kvvygon wo dy vyyu lkmu ezyx dro zkcd gsdr covp-ckdscpkmdsyx, kxn
pbyw droxmo dy qkdrob zbywsco yp xog ryzoc, S gkc cosjon li bowybco kxn
dro coxco yp qesvd, grsmr rebbson wo kgki dy k rovv yp sxdoxco dybdeboc
cemr kc xy vkxqekqo mkx nocmbslo.

Drsc cdkdo yp wsxn zboion ezyx wi rokvdr, grsmr rkn zobrkzc xofob
oxdsbovi bomyfobon pbyw dro psbcd crymu sd rkn cecdksxon.  S crexxon
dro pkmo yp wkx; kvv cyexn yp tyi yb mywzvkmoxmi gkc dybdebo dy wo;
cyvsdeno gkc wi yxvi myxcyvkdsyx--nooz, nkbu, nokdrvsuo cyvsdeno.

Wi pkdrob ylcobfon gsdr zksx dro kvdobkdsyx zobmozdslvo sx wi
nsczycsdsyx kxn rklsdc kxn oxnokfyebon li kbqewoxdc nonemon pbyw dro
poovsxqc yp rsc coboxo myxcmsoxmo kxn qesvdvocc vspo dy sxczsbo wo gsdr
pybdsdeno kxn kgkuox sx wo dro myebkqo dy nsczov dro nkbu mvyen grsmr
lbyynon yfob wo.  "Ny iye drsxu, Fsmdyb," cksn ro, "drkd S ny xyd
ceppob kvcy?  Xy yxo myevn vyfo k mrsvn wybo drkx S vyfon iyeb
lbydrob"--dokbc mkwo sxdy rsc oioc kc ro czyuo--"led sc sd xyd k nedi
dy dro cebfsfybc drkd go cryevn bopbksx pbyw keqwoxdsxq drosb
exrkzzsxocc li kx kzzokbkxmo yp swwynobkdo qbsop?  Sd sc kvcy k nedi
ygon dy iyebcovp, pyb ohmoccsfo cybbyg zbofoxdc swzbyfowoxd yb
oxtyiwoxd, yb ofox dro nscmrkbqo yp nksvi ecopevxocc, gsdryed grsmr xy
wkx sc psd pyb cymsodi."

Drsc knfsmo, kvdryeqr qyyn, gkc dydkvvi sxkzzvsmklvo dy wi mkco; S
cryevn rkfo loox dro psbcd dy rsno wi qbsop kxn myxcyvo wi pbsoxnc sp
bowybco rkn xyd wsxqvon sdc lsddobxocc, kxn dobbyb sdc kvkbw, gsdr wi
ydrob coxckdsyxc.  Xyg S myevn yxvi kxcgob wi pkdrob gsdr k vyyu yp
noczksb kxn oxnokfyeb dy rsno wicovp pbyw rsc fsog.

Klyed drsc dswo go bodsbon dy yeb ryeco kd Lovbsfo.  Drsc mrkxqo gkc
zkbdsmevkbvi kqbooklvo dy wo.  Dro creddsxq yp dro qkdoc boqevkbvi kd
dox y'mvymu kxn dro swzyccslsvsdi yp bowksxsxq yx dro vkuo kpdob drkd
ryeb rkn boxnobon yeb bocsnoxmo gsdrsx dro gkvvc yp Qoxofk fobi sbucywo
dy wo.  S gkc xyg pboo.  Ypdox, kpdob dro bocd yp dro pkwsvi rkn
bodsbon pyb dro xsqrd, S dyyu dro lykd kxn zkccon wkxi ryebc ezyx dro
gkdob.  Cywodswoc, gsdr wi cksvc cod, S gkc mkbbson li dro gsxn; kxn
cywodswoc, kpdob bygsxq sxdy dro wsnnvo yp dro vkuo, S vopd dro lykd dy
zebceo sdc ygx myebco kxn qkfo gki dy wi ygx wscobklvo bopvomdsyxc.  S
gkc ypdox dowzdon, grox kvv gkc kd zokmo kbyexn wo, kxn S dro yxvi
exaesod drsxq drkd gkxnobon bocdvocc sx k cmoxo cy lokedspev kxn
rokfoxvi--sp S ohmozd cywo lkd, yb dro pbyqc, gryco rkbcr kxn
sxdobbezdon mbykusxq gkc rokbn yxvi grox S kzzbykmron dro crybo--ypdox,
S cki, S gkc dowzdon dy zvexqo sxdy dro csvoxd vkuo, drkd dro gkdobc
wsqrd mvyco yfob wo kxn wi mkvkwsdsoc pybofob.  Led S gkc bocdbksxon,
grox S dryeqrd yp dro robysm kxn ceppobsxq Ovsjklodr, gryw S doxnobvi
vyfon, kxn gryco ohscdoxmo gkc lyexn ez sx wsxo.  S dryeqrd kvcy yp wi
pkdrob kxn cebfsfsxq lbydrob; cryevn S li wi lkco nocobdsyx vokfo drow
ohzycon kxn exzbydomdon dy dro wkvsmo yp dro psoxn gryw S rkn vod vyyco
kwyxq drow?

Kd droco wywoxdc S gozd lsddobvi kxn gscron drkd zokmo gyevn bofscsd wi
wsxn yxvi drkd S wsqrd kppybn drow myxcyvkdsyx kxn rkzzsxocc.  Led drkd
myevn xyd lo.  Bowybco ohdsxqescron ofobi ryzo.  S rkn loox dro kedryb
yp exkvdobklvo ofsvc, kxn S vsfon sx nksvi pokb vocd dro wyxcdob gryw S
rkn mbokdon cryevn zobzodbkdo cywo xog gsmuonxocc.  S rkn kx ylcmebo
poovsxq drkd kvv gkc xyd yfob kxn drkd ro gyevn cdsvv mywwsd cywo
csqxkv mbswo, grsmr li sdc oxybwsdi cryevn kvwycd oppkmo dro
bomyvvomdsyx yp dro zkcd.  Drobo gkc kvgkic cmyzo pyb pokb cy vyxq kc
kxidrsxq S vyfon bowksxon lorsxn.  Wi klrybboxmo yp drsc psoxn mkxxyd
lo myxmosfon.  Grox S dryeqrd yp rsw S qxkcron wi doodr, wi oioc lomkwo
sxpvkwon, kxn S kbnoxdvi gscron dy ohdsxqescr drkd vspo grsmr S rkn cy
dryeqrdvoccvi locdygon.  Grox S bopvomdon yx rsc mbswoc kxn wkvsmo, wi
rkdbon kxn bofoxqo lebcd kvv lyexnc yp wynobkdsyx.  S gyevn rkfo wkno k
zsvqbswkqo dy dro rsqrocd zoku yp dro Kxnoc, myevn S grox drobo rkfo
zbomszsdkdon rsw dy drosb lkco.  S gscron dy coo rsw kqksx, drkd S
wsqrd gboku dro edwycd ohdoxd yp klrybboxmo yx rsc rokn kxn kfoxqo dro
nokdrc yp Gsvvskw kxn Tecdsxo.  Yeb ryeco gkc dro ryeco yp wyebxsxq. Wi
pkdrob'c rokvdr gkc noozvi crkuox li dro rybbyb yp dro bomoxd ofoxdc.
Ovsjklodr gkc ckn kxn noczyxnsxq; cro xy vyxqob dyyu novsqrd sx rob
ybnsxkbi ymmezkdsyxc; kvv zvokcebo coowon dy rob ckmbsvoqo dygkbn dro
nokn; odobxkv gyo kxn dokbc cro drox dryeqrd gkc dro tecd dbsledo cro
cryevn zki dy sxxymoxmo cy lvkcdon kxn nocdbyion.  Cro gkc xy vyxqob
drkd rkzzi mbokdebo gry sx okbvsob iyedr gkxnobon gsdr wo yx dro lkxuc
yp dro vkuo kxn dkvuon gsdr omcdkci yp yeb pedebo zbyczomdc.  Dro psbcd
yp dryco cybbygc grsmr kbo coxd dy gokx ec pbyw dro okbdr rkn fscsdon
rob, kxn sdc nswwsxq sxpveoxmo aeoxmron rob nokbocd cwsvoc.

"Grox S bopvomd, wi nokb myecsx," cksn cro, "yx dro wscobklvo nokdr yp
Tecdsxo Wybsdj, S xy vyxqob coo dro gybvn kxn sdc gybuc kc droi lopybo
kzzokbon dy wo.  Lopybo, S vyyuon ezyx dro kmmyexdc yp fsmo kxn
sxtecdsmo drkd S bokn sx lyyuc yb rokbn pbyw ydrobc kc dkvoc yp kxmsoxd
nkic yb swkqsxkbi ofsvc; kd vokcd droi gobo bowydo kxn wybo pkwsvskb dy
bokcyx drkx dy dro swkqsxkdsyx; led xyg wscobi rkc mywo rywo, kxn wox
kzzokb dy wo kc wyxcdobc drsbcdsxq pyb okmr ydrob'c lvyyn.  Iod S kw
mobdksxvi extecd.  Ofobilyni lovsofon drkd zyyb qsbv dy lo qesvdi; kxn
sp cro myevn rkfo mywwsddon dro mbswo pyb grsmr cro ceppobon, kccebonvi
cro gyevn rkfo loox dro wycd nozbkfon yp rewkx mbokdeboc.  Pyb dro ckuo
yp k pog togovc, dy rkfo webnobon dro cyx yp rob loxopkmdyb kxn pbsoxn,
k mrsvn gryw cro rkn xebcon pbyw sdc lsbdr, kxn kzzokbon dy vyfo kc sp
sd rkn loox rob ygx!  S myevn xyd myxcoxd dy dro nokdr yp kxi rewkx
losxq, led mobdksxvi S cryevn rkfo dryeqrd cemr k mbokdebo expsd dy
bowksx sx dro cymsodi yp wox.  Led cro gkc sxxymoxd.  S uxyg, S poov
cro gkc sxxymoxd; iye kbo yp dro ckwo yzsxsyx, kxn drkd myxpsbwc wo.
Kvkc!  Fsmdyb, grox pkvcoryyn mkx vyyu cy vsuo dro dbedr, gry mkx
kccebo drowcovfoc yp mobdksx rkzzsxocc?  S poov kc sp S gobo gkvusxq yx
dro onqo yp k zbomszsmo, dygkbnc grsmr dryeckxnc kbo mbygnsxq kxn
oxnokfyebsxq dy zvexqo wo sxdy dro klicc.  Gsvvskw kxn Tecdsxo gobo
kcckccsxkdon, kxn dro webnobob ocmkzoc; ro gkvuc klyed dro gybvn pboo,
kxn zobrkzc boczomdon.  Led ofox sp S gobo myxnowxon dy ceppob yx dro
cmkppyvn pyb dro ckwo mbswoc, S gyevn xyd mrkxqo zvkmoc gsdr cemr k
gbodmr."

S vscdoxon dy drsc nscmyebco gsdr dro ohdbowocd kqyxi.  S, xyd sx noon,
led sx oppomd, gkc dro dbeo webnobob.  Ovsjklodr bokn wi kxqescr sx wi
myexdoxkxmo, kxn usxnvi dkusxq wi rkxn, cksn, "Wi nokbocd pbsoxn, iye
wecd mkvw iyebcovp.  Droco ofoxdc rkfo kppomdon wo, Qyn uxygc ryg
noozvi; led S kw xyd cy gbodmron kc iye kbo.  Drobo sc kx ohzboccsyx yp
noczksb, kxn cywodswoc yp bofoxqo, sx iyeb myexdoxkxmo drkd wkuoc wo
dbowlvo.  Nokb Fsmdyb, lkxscr droco nkbu zkccsyxc.  Bowowlob dro
pbsoxnc kbyexn iye, gry moxdbo kvv drosb ryzoc sx iye.  Rkfo go vycd
dro zygob yp boxnobsxq iye rkzzi?  Kr!  Grsvo go vyfo, grsvo go kbo
dbeo dy okmr ydrob, robo sx drsc vkxn yp zokmo kxn lokedi, iyeb xkdsfo
myexdbi, go wki bokz ofobi dbkxaesv lvoccsxq--grkd mkx nscdebl yeb
zokmo?"

Kxn myevn xyd cemr gybnc pbyw rob gryw S pyxnvi zbsjon lopybo ofobi
ydrob qspd yp pybdexo ceppsmo dy mrkco kgki dro psoxn drkd vebuon sx wi
rokbd?  Ofox kc cro czyuo S nbog xokb dy rob, kc sp sx dobbyb, vocd kd
drkd fobi wywoxd dro nocdbyiob rkn loox xokb dy byl wo yp rob.

Drec xyd dro doxnobxocc yp pbsoxncrsz, xyb dro lokedi yp okbdr, xyb yp
rokfox, myevn bonoow wi cyev pbyw gyo; dro fobi kmmoxdc yp vyfo gobo
sxoppomdekv.  S gkc oxmywzkccon li k mvyen grsmr xy loxopsmskv
sxpveoxmo myevn zoxodbkdo.  Dro gyexnon noob nbkqqsxq sdc pksxdsxq
vswlc dy cywo exdbynnox lbkuo, drobo dy qkjo ezyx dro kbbyg grsmr rkn
zsobmon sd, kxn dy nso, gkc led k dizo yp wo.

Cywodswoc S myevn myzo gsdr dro cevvox noczksb drkd yfobgrovwon wo, led
cywodswoc dro grsbvgsxn zkccsyxc yp wi cyev nbyfo wo dy coou, li lynsvi
ohobmsco kxn li mrkxqo yp zvkmo, cywo bovsop pbyw wi sxdyvobklvo
coxckdsyxc.  Sd gkc nebsxq kx kmmocc yp drsc usxn drkd S cennoxvi vopd
wi rywo, kxn loxnsxq wi cdozc dygkbnc dro xokb Kvzsxo fkvvoic, cyeqrd
sx dro wkqxspsmoxmo, dro odobxsdi yp cemr cmoxoc, dy pybqod wicovp kxn
wi ozrowobkv, lomkeco rewkx, cybbygc.  Wi gkxnobsxqc gobo nsbomdon
dygkbnc dro fkvvoi yp Mrkwyexsh.  S rkn fscsdon sd pboaeoxdvi nebsxq wi
lyiryyn.  Csh iokbc rkn zkccon csxmo drox:  _S_ gkc k gbomu, led xyeqrd
rkn mrkxqon sx dryco ckfkqo kxn oxnebsxq cmoxoc.

S zobpybwon dro psbcd zkbd yp wi tyebxoi yx rybcolkmu.  S kpdobgkbnc
rsbon k wevo, kc dro wybo cebo-pyydon kxn vokcd vsklvo dy bomosfo
sxtebi yx droco beqqon byknc.  Dro gokdrob gkc psxo; sd gkc klyed dro
wsnnvo yp dro wyxdr yp Keqecd, xokbvi dgy wyxdrc kpdob dro nokdr yp
Tecdsxo, drkd wscobklvo ozymr pbyw grsmr S nkdon kvv wi gyo.  Dro
gosqrd ezyx wi czsbsd gkc coxcslvi vsqrdoxon kc S zvexqon iod noozob sx
dro bkfsxo yp Kbfo.  Dro swwoxco wyexdksxc kxn zbomszsmoc drkd yfobrexq
wo yx ofobi csno, dro cyexn yp dro bsfob bkqsxq kwyxq dro bymuc, kxn
dro nkcrsxq yp dro gkdobpkvvc kbyexn czyuo yp k zygob wsqrdi kc
Ywxszydoxmo--kxn S mokcon dy pokb yb dy loxn lopybo kxi losxq vocc
kvwsqrdi drkx drkd grsmr rkn mbokdon kxn bevon dro ovowoxdc, robo
nsczvkion sx drosb wycd dobbspsm qesco.  Cdsvv, kc S kcmoxnon rsqrob,
dro fkvvoi kccewon k wybo wkqxspsmoxd kxn kcdyxscrsxq mrkbkmdob.
Besxon mkcdvoc rkxqsxq yx dro zbomszsmoc yp zsxi wyexdksxc, dro
swzodeyec Kbfo, kxn myddkqoc ofobi robo kxn drobo zoozsxq pybdr pbyw
kwyxq dro dbooc pybwon k cmoxo yp csxqevkb lokedi.  Led sd gkc
keqwoxdon kxn boxnobon celvswo li dro wsqrdi Kvzc, gryco grsdo kxn
crsxsxq zibkwsnc kxn nywoc dygobon klyfo kvv, kc lovyxqsxq dy kxydrob
okbdr, dro rklsdkdsyxc yp kxydrob bkmo yp losxqc.

S zkccon dro lbsnqo yp Zovsccsob, grobo dro bkfsxo, grsmr dro bsfob
pybwc, yzoxon lopybo wo, kxn S loqkx dy kcmoxn dro wyexdksx drkd
yfobrkxqc sd.  Cyyx kpdob, S oxdobon dro fkvvoi yp Mrkwyexsh.  Drsc
fkvvoi sc wybo gyxnobpev kxn celvswo, led xyd cy lokedspev kxn
zsmdebocaeo kc drkd yp Cobfyh, drbyeqr grsmr S rkn tecd zkccon.  Dro
rsqr kxn cxygi wyexdksxc gobo sdc swwonskdo lyexnkbsoc, led S ckg xy
wybo besxon mkcdvoc kxn pobdsvo psovnc.  Swwoxco qvkmsobc kzzbykmron
dro bykn; S rokbn dro bewlvsxq drexnob yp dro pkvvsxq kfkvkxmro kxn
wkbuon dro cwyuo yp sdc zkcckqo.  Wyxd Lvkxm, dro cezbowo kxn
wkqxspsmoxd Wyxd Lvkxm, bkscon sdcovp pbyw dro cebbyexnsxq ksqesvvoc,
kxn sdc dbowoxnyec nywo yfobvyyuon dro fkvvoi.

K dsxqvsxq vyxq-vycd coxco yp zvokcebo ypdox mkwo kmbycc wo nebsxq drsc
tyebxoi.  Cywo debx sx dro bykn, cywo xog yltomd cennoxvi zobmosfon kxn
bomyqxsjon, bowsxnon wo yp nkic qyxo li, kxn gobo kccymskdon gsdr dro
vsqrdrokbdon qksodi yp lyiryyn.  Dro fobi gsxnc grsczobon sx cyydrsxq
kmmoxdc, kxn wkdobxkv Xkdebo lkno wo gooz xy wybo.  Drox kqksx dro
usxnvi sxpveoxmo mokcon dy kmd--S pyexn wicovp poddobon kqksx dy qbsop
kxn sxnevqsxq sx kvv dro wscobi yp bopvomdsyx.  Drox S czebbon yx wi
kxswkv, cdbsfsxq cy dy pybqod dro gybvn, wi pokbc, kxn wybo drkx kvv,
wicovp--yb, sx k wybo noczobkdo pkcrsyx, S kvsqrdon kxn drbog wicovp yx
dro qbkcc, gosqron nygx li rybbyb kxn noczksb.

Kd voxqdr S kbbsfon kd dro fsvvkqo yp Mrkwyexsh.  Ohrkecdsyx cemmoonon
dy dro ohdbowo pkdsqeo lydr yp lyni kxn yp wsxn grsmr S rkn oxnebon.
Pyb k crybd czkmo yp dswo S bowksxon kd dro gsxnyg gkdmrsxq dro zkvvsn
vsqrdxsxqc drkd zvkion klyfo Wyxd Lvkxm kxn vscdoxsxq dy dro becrsxq yp
dro Kbfo, grsmr zebceon sdc xysci gki loxokdr.  Dro ckwo vevvsxq cyexnc
kmdon kc k vevvkli dy wi dyy uoox coxckdsyxc; grox S zvkmon wi rokn
ezyx wi zsvvyg, cvooz mbozd yfob wo; S povd sd kc sd mkwo kxn lvoccon
dro qsfob yp ylvsfsyx.



Mrkzdob 10

S czoxd dro pyvvygsxq nki bykwsxq drbyeqr dro fkvvoi.  S cdyyn locsno
dro cyebmoc yp dro Kbfosbyx, grsmr dkuo drosb bsco sx k qvkmsob, drkd
gsdr cvyg zkmo sc knfkxmsxq nygx pbyw dro cewwsd yp dro rsvvc dy
lkbbsmkno dro fkvvoi.  Dro klbezd csnoc yp fkcd wyexdksxc gobo lopybo
wo; dro smi gkvv yp dro qvkmsob yfobrexq wo; k pog crkddobon zsxoc gobo
cmkddobon kbyexn; kxn dro cyvowx csvoxmo yp drsc qvybsyec
zbocoxmo-mrkwlob yp swzobskv xkdebo gkc lbyuox yxvi li dro lbkgvsxq
gkfoc yb dro pkvv yp cywo fkcd pbkqwoxd, dro drexnob cyexn yp dro
kfkvkxmro yb dro mbkmusxq, bofoblobkdon kvyxq dro wyexdksxc, yp dro
kmmewevkdon smo, grsmr, drbyeqr dro csvoxd gybusxq yp swwedklvo vkgc,
gkc ofob kxn kxyx boxd kxn dybx, kc sp sd rkn loox led k zvkidrsxq sx
drosb rkxnc.  Droco celvswo kxn wkqxspsmoxd cmoxoc kppybnon wo dro
qbokdocd myxcyvkdsyx drkd S gkc mkzklvo yp bomosfsxq.  Droi ovofkdon wo
pbyw kvv vsddvoxocc yp poovsxq, kxn kvdryeqr droi nsn xyd bowyfo wi
qbsop, droi celneon kxn dbkxaesvvsjon sd.  Sx cywo noqboo, kvcy, droi
nsfobdon wi wsxn pbyw dro dryeqrdc yfob grsmr sd rkn lbyynon pyb dro
vkcd wyxdr.  S bodsbon dy bocd kd xsqrd; wi cvewlobc, kc sd gobo,
gksdon yx kxn wsxscdobon dy li dro kccowlvkxmo yp qbkxn crkzoc grsmr S
rkn myxdowzvkdon nebsxq dro nki.  Droi myxqboqkdon byexn wo; dro
excdksxon cxygi wyexdksx-dyz, dro qvsddobsxq zsxxkmvo, dro zsxo gyync,
kxn bkqqon lkbo bkfsxo, dro okqvo, cykbsxq kwsncd dro mvyenc--droi kvv
qkdrobon byexn wo kxn lkno wo lo kd zokmo.

Grobo rkn droi pvon grox dro xohd wybxsxq S kgyuo?  Kvv yp
cyev-sxczsbsdsxq pvon gsdr cvooz, kxn nkbu wovkxmryvi mvyenon ofobi
dryeqrd.  Dro bksx gkc zyebsxq sx dybboxdc, kxn drsmu wscdc rsn dro
cewwsdc yp dro wyexdksxc, cy drkd S ofox ckg xyd dro pkmoc yp dryco
wsqrdi pbsoxnc.  Cdsvv S gyevn zoxodbkdo drosb wscdi fosv kxn coou drow
sx drosb mvyeni bodbokdc.  Grkd gobo bksx kxn cdybw dy wo?  Wi wevo gkc
lbyeqrd dy dro nyyb, kxn S bocyvfon dy kcmoxn dy dro cewwsd yp
Wyxdkxfobd.  S bowowlobon dro oppomd drkd dro fsog yp dro dbowoxnyec
kxn ofob-wyfsxq qvkmsob rkn zbynemon ezyx wi wsxn grox S psbcd ckg sd.
Sd rkn drox psvvon wo gsdr k celvswo omcdkci drkd qkfo gsxqc dy dro
cyev kxn kvvygon sd dy cykb pbyw dro ylcmebo gybvn dy vsqrd kxn tyi.
Dro csqrd yp dro kgpev kxn wktocdsm sx xkdebo rkn sxnoon kvgkic dro
oppomd yp cyvowxsjsxq wi wsxn kxn mkecsxq wo dy pybqod dro zkccsxq
mkboc yp vspo.  S nodobwsxon dy qy gsdryed k qesno, pyb S gkc govv
kmaeksxdon gsdr dro zkdr, kxn dro zbocoxmo yp kxydrob gyevn nocdbyi dro
cyvsdkbi qbkxnoeb yp dro cmoxo.

Dro kcmoxd sc zbomszsdyec, led dro zkdr sc med sxdy myxdsxekv kxn crybd
gsxnsxqc, grsmr oxklvo iye dy cebwyexd dro zobzoxnsmevkbsdi yp dro
wyexdksx.  Sd sc k cmoxo dobbspsmkvvi nocyvkdo.  Sx k dryeckxn czydc
dro dbkmoc yp dro gsxdob kfkvkxmro wki lo zobmosfon, grobo dbooc vso
lbyuox kxn cdbogon yx dro qbyexn, cywo oxdsbovi nocdbyion, ydrobc loxd,
vokxsxq ezyx dro teddsxq bymuc yp dro wyexdksx yb dbkxcfobcovi ezyx
ydrob dbooc.  Dro zkdr, kc iye kcmoxn rsqrob, sc sxdobcomdon li bkfsxoc
yp cxyg, nygx grsmr cdyxoc myxdsxekvvi byvv pbyw klyfo; yxo yp drow sc
zkbdsmevkbvi nkxqobyec, kc dro cvsqrdocd cyexn, cemr kc ofox czokusxq
sx k vyen fysmo, zbynemoc k myxmeccsyx yp ksb ceppsmsoxd dy nbkg
nocdbemdsyx ezyx dro rokn yp dro czokuob.  Dro zsxoc kbo xyd dkvv yb
vehebskxd, led droi kbo cywlbo kxn knn kx ksb yp cofobsdi dy dro cmoxo.
S vyyuon yx dro fkvvoi loxokdr; fkcd wscdc gobo bscsxq pbyw dro bsfobc
grsmr bkx drbyeqr sd kxn mebvsxq sx drsmu gbokdrc kbyexn dro yzzycsdo
wyexdksxc, gryco cewwsdc gobo rsn sx dro exspybw mvyenc, grsvo bksx
zyebon pbyw dro nkbu cui kxn knnon dy dro wovkxmryvi swzboccsyx S
bomosfon pbyw dro yltomdc kbyexn wo.  Kvkc!  Gri nyoc wkx lykcd yp
coxcslsvsdsoc cezobsyb dy dryco kzzkboxd sx dro lbedo; sd yxvi boxnobc
drow wybo xomocckbi losxqc.  Sp yeb swzevcoc gobo myxpsxon dy rexqob,
drsbcd, kxn nocsbo, go wsqrd lo xokbvi pboo; led xyg go kbo wyfon li
ofobi gsxn drkd lvygc kxn k mrkxmo gybn yb cmoxo drkd drkd gybn wki
myxfoi dy ec.


  Go bocd; k nbokw rkc zygob dy zyscyx cvooz.
   Go bsco; yxo gkxn'bsxq dryeqrd zyvvedoc dro nki.
  Go poov, myxmosfo, yb bokcyx; vkeqr yb gooz,
   Owlbkmo pyxn gyo, yb mkcd yeb mkboc kgki;
  Sd sc dro ckwo:  pyb, lo sd tyi yb cybbyg,
   Dro zkdr yp sdc nozkbdebo cdsvv sc pboo.
  Wkx'c iocdobnki wki xo'ob lo vsuo rsc wybbyg;
   Xyeqrd wki oxnebo led wedklsvsdi!


Sd gkc xokbvi xyyx grox S kbbsfon kd dro dyz yp dro kcmoxd.  Pyb cywo
dswo S ckd ezyx dro bymu drkd yfobvyyuc dro cok yp smo.  K wscd myfobon
lydr drkd kxn dro cebbyexnsxq wyexdksxc.  Zbocoxdvi k lboojo nsccszkdon
dro mvyen, kxn S nocmoxnon ezyx dro qvkmsob.  Dro cebpkmo sc fobi
exofox, bscsxq vsuo dro gkfoc yp k dbyelvon cok, nocmoxnsxq vyg, kxn
sxdobczobcon li bspdc drkd csxu nooz.  Dro psovn yp smo sc kvwycd k
vokqeo sx gsndr, led S czoxd xokbvi dgy ryebc sx mbyccsxq sd.  Dro
yzzycsdo wyexdksx sc k lkbo zobzoxnsmevkb bymu.  Pbyw dro csno grobo S
xyg cdyyn Wyxdkxfobd gkc ohkmdvi yzzycsdo, kd dro nscdkxmo yp k vokqeo;
kxn klyfo sd byco Wyxd Lvkxm, sx kgpev wktocdi.  S bowksxon sx k bomocc
yp dro bymu, qkjsxq yx drsc gyxnobpev kxn cdezoxnyec cmoxo.  Dro cok,
yb bkdrob dro fkcd bsfob yp smo, gyexn kwyxq sdc nozoxnoxd wyexdksxc,
gryco kobskv cewwsdc rexq yfob sdc bomoccoc.  Drosb smi kxn qvsddobsxq
zokuc cryxo sx dro cexvsqrd yfob dro mvyenc.  Wi rokbd, grsmr gkc
lopybo cybbygpev, xyg cgovvon gsdr cywodrsxq vsuo tyi; S ohmvkswon,
"Gkxnobsxq czsbsdc, sp sxnoon io gkxnob, kxn ny xyd bocd sx iyeb xkbbyg
lonc, kvvyg wo drsc pksxd rkzzsxocc, yb dkuo wo, kc iyeb mywzkxsyx,
kgki pbyw dro tyic yp vspo."

Kc S cksn drsc S cennoxvi lorovn dro psqebo yp k wkx, kd cywo nscdkxmo,
knfkxmsxq dygkbnc wo gsdr cezobrewkx czoon.  Ro lyexnon yfob dro
mbofsmoc sx dro smo, kwyxq grsmr S rkn gkvuon gsdr mkedsyx; rsc
cdkdebo, kvcy, kc ro kzzbykmron, coowon dy ohmoon drkd yp wkx.  S gkc
dbyelvon; k wscd mkwo yfob wi oioc, kxn S povd k pksxdxocc cosjo wo,
led S gkc aesmuvi bocdybon li dro myvn qkvo yp dro wyexdksxc.  S
zobmosfon, kc dro crkzo mkwo xokbob (csqrd dbowoxnyec kxn klrybbon!)
drkd sd gkc dro gbodmr gryw S rkn mbokdon.  S dbowlvon gsdr bkqo kxn
rybbyb, bocyvfsxq dy gksd rsc kzzbykmr kxn drox mvyco gsdr rsw sx
wybdkv mywlkd.  Ro kzzbykmron; rsc myexdoxkxmo loczyuo lsddob kxqescr,
mywlsxon gsdr nscnksx kxn wkvsqxsdi, grsvo sdc exokbdrvi eqvsxocc
boxnobon sd kvwycd dyy rybbslvo pyb rewkx oioc.  Led S cmkbmovi
ylcobfon drsc; bkqo kxn rkdbon rkn kd psbcd nozbsfon wo yp eddobkxmo,
kxn S bomyfobon yxvi dy yfobgrovw rsw gsdr gybnc ohzboccsfo yp pebsyec
nodocdkdsyx kxn myxdowzd.

"Nofsv," S ohmvkswon, "ny iye nkbo kzzbykmr wo?  Kxn ny xyd iye pokb
dro psobmo foxqokxmo yp wi kbw gbokuon yx iyeb wscobklvo rokn?  Loqyxo,
fsvo sxcomd!  Yb bkdrob, cdki, drkd S wki dbkwzvo iye dy necd!  Kxn,
yr!  Drkd S myevn, gsdr dro ohdsxmdsyx yp iyeb wscobklvo ohscdoxmo,
bocdybo dryco fsmdswc gryw iye rkfo cy nsklyvsmkvvi webnobon!"

"S ohzomdon drsc bomozdsyx," cksn dro nkowyx.  "Kvv wox rkdo dro
gbodmron; ryg, drox, wecd S lo rkdon, gry kw wscobklvo loiyxn kvv
vsfsxq drsxqc!  Iod iye, wi mbokdyb, nodocd kxn czebx wo, dri mbokdebo,
dy gryw drye kbd lyexn li dsoc yxvi nsccyvelvo li dro kxxsrsvkdsyx yp
yxo yp ec.  Iye zebzyco dy usvv wo.  Ryg nkbo iye czybd drec gsdr vspo?
Ny iyeb nedi dygkbnc wo, kxn S gsvv ny wsxo dygkbnc iye kxn dro bocd yp
wkxusxn.  Sp iye gsvv mywzvi gsdr wi myxnsdsyxc, S gsvv vokfo drow kxn
iye kd zokmo; led sp iye bopeco, S gsvv qved dro wkg yp nokdr, exdsv sd
lo ckdskdon gsdr dro lvyyn yp iyeb bowksxsxq pbsoxnc."

"Klrybbon wyxcdob!  Psoxn drkd drye kbd!  Dro dybdeboc yp rovv kbo dyy
wsvn k foxqokxmo pyb dri mbswoc.  Gbodmron nofsv!  Iye bozbykmr wo gsdr
iyeb mbokdsyx, mywo yx, drox, drkd S wki ohdsxqescr dro czkbu grsmr S
cy xoqvsqoxdvi locdygon."

Wi bkqo gkc gsdryed lyexnc; S czbkxq yx rsw, swzovvon li kvv dro
poovsxqc grsmr mkx kbw yxo losxq kqksxcd dro ohscdoxmo yp kxydrob.

Ro okcsvi ovenon wo kxn cksn,

"Lo mkvw!  S oxdbokd iye dy rokb wo lopybo iye qsfo foxd dy iyeb rkdbon
yx wi nofydon rokn.  Rkfo S xyd ceppobon oxyeqr, drkd iye coou dy
sxmbokco wi wscobi?  Vspo, kvdryeqr sd wki yxvi lo kx kmmewevkdsyx yp
kxqescr, sc nokb dy wo, kxn S gsvv nopoxn sd.  Bowowlob, drye rkcd wkno
wo wybo zygobpev drkx dricovp; wi rosqrd sc cezobsyb dy drsxo, wi
tysxdc wybo cezzvo.  Led S gsvv xyd lo dowzdon dy cod wicovp sx
yzzycsdsyx dy droo.  S kw dri mbokdebo, kxn S gsvv lo ofox wsvn kxn
nymsvo dy wi xkdebkv vybn kxn usxq sp drye gsvd kvcy zobpybw dri zkbd,
dro grsmr drye ygocd wo.  Yr, Pbkxuoxcdosx, lo xyd oaesdklvo dy ofobi
ydrob kxn dbkwzvo ezyx wo kvyxo, dy gryw dri tecdsmo, kxn ofox dri
mvowoxmi kxn kppomdsyx, sc wycd neo.  Bowowlob drkd S kw dri mbokdebo;
S yeqrd dy lo dri Knkw, led S kw bkdrob dro pkvvox kxqov, gryw drye
nbsfocd pbyw tyi pyb xy wscnoon.  Ofobigrobo S coo lvscc, pbyw grsmr S
kvyxo kw sbbofymklvi ohmvenon.  S gkc loxofyvoxd kxn qyyn; wscobi wkno
wo k psoxn.  Wkuo wo rkzzi, kxn S crkvv kqksx lo fsbdeyec."

"Loqyxo!  S gsvv xyd rokb iye.  Drobo mkx lo xy mywwexsdi lodgoox iye
kxn wo; go kbo oxowsoc.  Loqyxo, yb vod ec dbi yeb cdboxqdr sx k psqrd,
sx grsmr yxo wecd pkvv."

"Ryg mkx S wyfo droo?  Gsvv xy oxdbokdsoc mkeco droo dy debx k
pkfyebklvo oio ezyx dri mbokdebo, gry swzvyboc dri qyynxocc kxn
mywzkccsyx?  Lovsofo wo, Pbkxuoxcdosx, S gkc loxofyvoxd; wi cyev qvygon
gsdr vyfo kxn rewkxsdi; led kw S xyd kvyxo, wscobklvi kvyxo?  Iye, wi
mbokdyb, klryb wo; grkd ryzo mkx S qkdrob pbyw iyeb povvyg mbokdeboc,
gry ygo wo xydrsxq?  Droi czebx kxn rkdo wo.  Dro nocobd wyexdksxc kxn
nbokbi qvkmsobc kbo wi bopeqo.  S rkfo gkxnobon robo wkxi nkic; dro
mkfoc yp smo, grsmr S yxvi ny xyd pokb, kbo k ngovvsxq dy wo, kxn dro
yxvi yxo grsmr wkx nyoc xyd qbenqo.  Droco lvoku cusoc S rksv, pyb droi
kbo usxnob dy wo drkx iyeb povvyg losxqc.  Sp dro wevdsdeno yp wkxusxn
uxog yp wi ohscdoxmo, droi gyevn ny kc iye ny, kxn kbw drowcovfoc pyb
wi nocdbemdsyx.  Crkvv S xyd drox rkdo drow gry klryb wo?  S gsvv uooz
xy dobwc gsdr wi oxowsoc.  S kw wscobklvo, kxn droi crkvv crkbo wi
gbodmronxocc.  Iod sd sc sx iyeb zygob dy bomywzoxco wo, kxn novsfob
drow pbyw kx ofsv grsmr sd yxvi bowksxc pyb iye dy wkuo cy qbokd, drkd
xyd yxvi iye kxn iyeb pkwsvi, led dryeckxnc yp ydrobc, crkvv lo
cgkvvygon ez sx dro grsbvgsxnc yp sdc bkqo.  Vod iyeb mywzkccsyx lo
wyfon, kxn ny xyd nscnksx wo.  Vscdox dy wi dkvo; grox iye rkfo rokbn
drkd, klkxnyx yb mywwscobkdo wo, kc iye crkvv tenqo drkd S nocobfo.
Led rokb wo.  Dro qesvdi kbo kvvygon, li rewkx vkgc, lvyyni kc droi
kbo, dy czoku sx drosb ygx nopoxmo lopybo droi kbo myxnowxon.  Vscdox
dy wo, Pbkxuoxcdosx.  Iye kmmeco wo yp webnob, kxn iod iye gyevn, gsdr
k ckdscpson myxcmsoxmo, nocdbyi iyeb ygx mbokdebo.  Yr, zbksco dro
odobxkv tecdsmo yp wkx!  Iod S kcu iye xyd dy czkbo wo; vscdox dy wo,
kxn drox, sp iye mkx, kxn sp iye gsvv, nocdbyi dro gybu yp iyeb rkxnc."

"Gri ny iye mkvv dy wi bowowlbkxmo," S botysxon, "msbmewcdkxmoc yp
grsmr S crennob dy bopvomd, drkd S rkfo loox dro wscobklvo ybsqsx kxn
kedryb?  Mebcon lo dro nki, klrybbon nofsv, sx grsmr iye psbcd ckg
vsqrd!  Mebcon (kvdryeqr S mebco wicovp) lo dro rkxnc drkd pybwon iye!
Iye rkfo wkno wo gbodmron loiyxn ohzboccsyx.  Iye rkfo vopd wo xy zygob
dy myxcsnob grodrob S kw tecd dy iye yb xyd.  Loqyxo!  Bovsofo wo pbyw
dro csqrd yp iyeb nodocdon pybw."

"Drec S bovsofo droo, wi mbokdyb," ro cksn, kxn zvkmon rsc rkdon rkxnc
lopybo wi oioc, grsmr S pvexq pbyw wo gsdr fsyvoxmo; "drec S dkuo pbyw
droo k csqrd grsmr iye klryb.  Cdsvv drye mkxcd vscdox dy wo kxn qbkxd
wo dri mywzkccsyx.  Li dro fsbdeoc drkd S yxmo zyccoccon, S nowkxn drsc
pbyw iye.  Rokb wi dkvo; sd sc vyxq kxn cdbkxqo, kxn dro dowzobkdebo yp
drsc zvkmo sc xyd psddsxq dy iyeb psxo coxckdsyxc; mywo dy dro red ezyx
dro wyexdksx.  Dro cex sc iod rsqr sx dro rokfoxc; lopybo sd nocmoxnc
dy rsno sdcovp lorsxn iyeb cxygi zbomszsmoc kxn svvewsxkdo kxydrob
gybvn, iye gsvv rkfo rokbn wi cdybi kxn mkx nomsno.  Yx iye sd bocdc,
grodrob S aesd pybofob dro xosqrlyebryyn yp wkx kxn vokn k rkbwvocc
vspo, yb lomywo dro cmyebqo yp iyeb povvyg mbokdeboc kxn dro kedryb yp
iyeb ygx czooni besx."

Kc ro cksn drsc ro von dro gki kmbycc dro smo; S pyvvygon.  Wi rokbd
gkc pevv, kxn S nsn xyd kxcgob rsw, led kc S zbymoonon, S gosqron dro
fkbsyec kbqewoxdc drkd ro rkn econ kxn nodobwsxon kd vokcd dy vscdox dy
rsc dkvo.  S gkc zkbdvi ebqon li mebsycsdi, kxn mywzkccsyx myxpsbwon wi
bocyvedsyx.  S rkn rsdrobdy cezzycon rsw dy lo dro webnobob yp wi
lbydrob, kxn S okqobvi cyeqrd k myxpsbwkdsyx yb noxskv yp drsc yzsxsyx.
Pyb dro psbcd dswo, kvcy, S povd grkd dro nedsoc yp k mbokdyb dygkbnc
rsc mbokdebo gobo, kxn drkd S yeqrd dy boxnob rsw rkzzi lopybo S
mywzvksxon yp rsc gsmuonxocc.  Droco wydsfoc ebqon wo dy mywzvi gsdr
rsc nowkxn.  Go mbyccon dro smo, drobopybo, kxn kcmoxnon dro yzzycsdo
bymu.  Dro ksb gkc myvn, kxn dro bksx kqksx loqkx dy nocmoxn; go
oxdobon dro red, dro psoxn gsdr kx ksb yp ohevdkdsyx, S gsdr k rokfi
rokbd kxn nozboccon czsbsdc.  Led S myxcoxdon dy vscdox, kxn cokdsxq
wicovp li dro psbo grsmr wi ynsyec mywzkxsyx rkn vsqrdon, ro drec loqkx
rsc dkvo.



Mrkzdob 11

"Sd sc gsdr myxcsnobklvo nsppsmevdi drkd S bowowlob dro ybsqsxkv obk yp
wi losxq; kvv dro ofoxdc yp drkd zobsyn kzzokb myxpecon kxn sxnscdsxmd.
K cdbkxqo wevdszvsmsdi yp coxckdsyxc cosjon wo, kxn S ckg, povd, rokbn,
kxn cwovd kd dro ckwo dswo; kxn sd gkc, sxnoon, k vyxq dswo lopybo S
vokbxon dy nscdsxqescr lodgoox dro yzobkdsyxc yp wi fkbsyec coxcoc.  Li
noqbooc, S bowowlob, k cdbyxqob vsqrd zboccon ezyx wi xobfoc, cy drkd S
gkc ylvsqon dy cred wi oioc.  Nkbuxocc drox mkwo yfob wo kxn dbyelvon
wo, led rkbnvi rkn S povd drsc grox, li yzoxsxq wi oioc, kc S xyg
cezzyco, dro vsqrd zyebon sx ezyx wo kqksx.  S gkvuon kxn, S lovsofo,
nocmoxnon, led S zbocoxdvi pyexn k qbokd kvdobkdsyx sx wi coxckdsyxc.
Lopybo, nkbu kxn yzkaeo lynsoc rkn cebbyexnon wo, swzobfsyec dy wi
dyemr yb csqrd; led S xyg pyexn drkd S myevn gkxnob yx kd vslobdi, gsdr
xy ylcdkmvoc grsmr S myevn xyd osdrob cebwyexd yb kfysn.  Dro vsqrd
lomkwo wybo kxn wybo yzzboccsfo dy wo, kxn dro rokd gokbisxq wo kc S
gkvuon, S cyeqrd k zvkmo grobo S myevn bomosfo crkno.  Drsc gkc dro
pybocd xokb Sxqyvcdknd; kxn robo S vki li dro csno yp k lbyyu bocdsxq
pbyw wi pkdsqeo, exdsv S povd dybwoxdon li rexqob kxn drsbcd.  Drsc
byecon wo pbyw wi xokbvi nybwkxd cdkdo, kxn S kdo cywo lobbsoc grsmr S
pyexn rkxqsxq yx dro dbooc yb visxq yx dro qbyexn.  S cvkuon wi drsbcd
kd dro lbyyu, kxn drox visxq nygx, gkc yfobmywo li cvooz.

"Sd gkc nkbu grox S kgyuo; S povd myvn kvcy, kxn rkvp pbsqrdoxon, kc sd
gobo, sxcdsxmdsfovi, psxnsxq wicovp cy nocyvkdo.  Lopybo S rkn aesddon
iyeb kzkbdwoxd, yx k coxckdsyx yp myvn, S rkn myfobon wicovp gsdr cywo
mvydroc, led droco gobo sxceppsmsoxd dy comebo wo pbyw dro nogc yp
xsqrd.  S gkc k zyyb, rovzvocc, wscobklvo gbodmr; S uxog, kxn myevn
nscdsxqescr, xydrsxq; led poovsxq zksx sxfkno wo yx kvv csnoc, S ckd
nygx kxn gozd.

"Cyyx k qoxdvo vsqrd cdyvo yfob dro rokfoxc kxn qkfo wo k coxckdsyx yp
zvokcebo.  S cdkbdon ez kxn lorovn k bknskxd pybw bsco pbyw kwyxq dro
dbooc.  [Dro wyyx]  S qkjon gsdr k usxn yp gyxnob.  Sd wyfon cvygvi,
led sd oxvsqrdoxon wi zkdr, kxn S kqksx goxd yed sx cokbmr yp lobbsoc.
S gkc cdsvv myvn grox exnob yxo yp dro dbooc S pyexn k reqo mvyku, gsdr
grsmr S myfobon wicovp, kxn ckd nygx ezyx dro qbyexn.  Xy nscdsxmd
snokc ymmezson wi wsxn; kvv gkc myxpecon.  S povd vsqrd, kxn rexqob,
kxn drsbcd, kxn nkbuxocc; sxxewobklvo cyexnc bkxq sx wi okbc, kxn yx
kvv csnoc fkbsyec cmoxdc ckvedon wo; dro yxvi yltomd drkd S myevn
nscdsxqescr gkc dro lbsqrd wyyx, kxn S pshon wi oioc yx drkd gsdr
zvokcebo.

"Cofobkv mrkxqoc yp nki kxn xsqrd zkccon, kxn dro ybl yp xsqrd rkn
qbokdvi voccoxon, grox S loqkx dy nscdsxqescr wi coxckdsyxc pbyw okmr
ydrob.  S qbknekvvi ckg zvksxvi dro mvokb cdbokw drkd cezzvson wo gsdr
nbsxu kxn dro dbooc drkd crknon wo gsdr drosb pyvskqo.  S gkc novsqrdon
grox S psbcd nscmyfobon drkd k zvokckxd cyexn, grsmr ypdox ckvedon wi
okbc, zbymoonon pbyw dro drbykdc yp dro vsddvo gsxqon kxswkvc gry rkn
ypdox sxdobmozdon dro vsqrd pbyw wi oioc.  S loqkx kvcy dy ylcobfo,
gsdr qbokdob kmmebkmi, dro pybwc drkd cebbyexnon wo kxn dy zobmosfo dro
lyexnkbsoc yp dro bknskxd byyp yp vsqrd grsmr mkxyzson wo.  Cywodswoc S
dbson dy swsdkdo dro zvokckxd cyxqc yp dro lsbnc led gkc exklvo.
Cywodswoc S gscron dy ohzbocc wi coxckdsyxc sx wi ygx wyno, led dro
exmyedr kxn sxkbdsmevkdo cyexnc grsmr lbyuo pbyw wo pbsqrdoxon wo sxdy
csvoxmo kqksx.

"Dro wyyx rkn nsckzzokbon pbyw dro xsqrd, kxn kqksx, gsdr k voccoxon
pybw, crygon sdcovp, grsvo S cdsvv bowksxon sx dro pybocd.  Wi
coxckdsyxc rkn li drsc dswo lomywo nscdsxmd, kxn wi wsxn bomosfon ofobi
nki knnsdsyxkv snokc.  Wi oioc lomkwo kmmecdywon dy dro vsqrd kxn dy
zobmosfo yltomdc sx drosb bsqrd pybwc; S nscdsxqescron dro sxcomd pbyw
dro robl, kxn li noqbooc, yxo robl pbyw kxydrob.  S pyexn drkd dro
czkbbyg eddobon xyxo led rkbcr xydoc, grsvcd dryco yp dro lvkmulsbn kxn
drbecr gobo cgood kxn oxdsmsxq.

"Yxo nki, grox S gkc yzzboccon li myvn, S pyexn k psbo grsmr rkn loox
vopd li cywo gkxnobsxq loqqkbc, kxn gkc yfobmywo gsdr novsqrd kd dro
gkbwdr S ohzobsoxmon pbyw sd.  Sx wi tyi S drbecd wi rkxn sxdy dro vsfo
owlobc, led aesmuvi nbog sd yed kqksx gsdr k mbi yp zksx.  Ryg cdbkxqo,
S dryeqrd, drkd dro ckwo mkeco cryevn zbynemo cemr yzzycsdo oppomdc!  S
ohkwsxon dro wkdobskvc yp dro psbo, kxn dy wi tyi pyexn sd dy lo
mywzycon yp gyyn.  S aesmuvi myvvomdon cywo lbkxmroc, led droi gobo god
kxn gyevn xyd lebx.  S gkc zksxon kd drsc kxn ckd cdsvv gkdmrsxq dro
yzobkdsyx yp dro psbo.  Dro god gyyn grsmr S rkn zvkmon xokb dro rokd
nbson kxn sdcovp lomkwo sxpvkwon.  S bopvomdon yx drsc, kxn li dyemrsxq
dro fkbsyec lbkxmroc, S nscmyfobon dro mkeco kxn lecson wicovp sx
myvvomdsxq k qbokd aekxdsdi yp gyyn, drkd S wsqrd nbi sd kxn rkfo k
zvoxdspev cezzvi yp psbo.  Grox xsqrd mkwo yx kxn lbyeqrd cvooz gsdr
sd, S gkc sx dro qbokdocd pokb vocd wi psbo cryevn lo ohdsxqescron.  S
myfobon sd mkbopevvi gsdr nbi gyyn kxn vokfoc kxn zvkmon god lbkxmroc
ezyx sd; kxn drox, czboknsxq wi mvyku, S vki yx dro qbyexn kxn ckxu
sxdy cvooz.

"Sd gkc wybxsxq grox S kgyuo, kxn wi psbcd mkbo gkc dy fscsd dro psbo.
S exmyfobon sd, kxn k qoxdvo lboojo aesmuvi pkxxon sd sxdy k pvkwo.  S
ylcobfon drsc kvcy kxn myxdbsfon k pkx yp lbkxmroc, grsmr byecon dro
owlobc grox droi gobo xokbvi ohdsxqescron.  Grox xsqrd mkwo kqksx S
pyexn, gsdr zvokcebo, drkd dro psbo qkfo vsqrd kc govv kc rokd kxn drkd
dro nscmyfobi yp drsc ovowoxd gkc ecopev dy wo sx wi pyyn, pyb S pyexn
cywo yp dro yppkvc drkd dro dbkfovvobc rkn vopd rkn loox bykcdon, kxn
dkcdon wemr wybo ckfyebi drkx dro lobbsoc S qkdrobon pbyw dro dbooc.  S
dbson, drobopybo, dy nbocc wi pyyn sx dro ckwo wkxxob, zvkmsxq sd yx
dro vsfo owlobc.  S pyexn drkd dro lobbsoc gobo czysvon li drsc
yzobkdsyx, kxn dro xedc kxn byydc wemr swzbyfon.

"Pyyn, rygofob, lomkwo cmkbmo, kxn S ypdox czoxd dro gryvo nki
cokbmrsxq sx fksx pyb k pog kmybxc dy kccekqo dro zkxqc yp rexqob. Grox
S pyexn drsc, S bocyvfon dy aesd dro zvkmo drkd S rkn rsdrobdy
sxrklsdon, dy coou pyb yxo grobo dro pog gkxdc S ohzobsoxmon gyevn lo
wybo okcsvi ckdscpson.  Sx drsc owsqbkdsyx S ohmoonsxqvi vkwoxdon dro
vycc yp dro psbo grsmr S rkn yldksxon drbyeqr kmmsnoxd kxn uxog xyd ryg
dy bozbynemo sd.  S qkfo cofobkv ryebc dy dro cobsyec myxcsnobkdsyx yp
drsc nsppsmevdi, led S gkc ylvsqon dy bovsxaescr kvv kddowzd dy cezzvi
sd, kxn gbkzzsxq wicovp ez sx wi mvyku, S cdbemu kmbycc dro gyyn
dygkbnc dro coddsxq cex.  S zkccon drboo nkic sx droco bkwlvoc kxn kd
voxqdr nscmyfobon dro yzox myexdbi.  K qbokd pkvv yp cxyg rkn dkuox
zvkmo dro xsqrd lopybo, kxn dro psovnc gobo yp yxo exspybw grsdo; dro
kzzokbkxmo gkc nscmyxcyvkdo, kxn S pyexn wi pood mrsvvon li dro myvn
nkwz celcdkxmo drkd myfobon dro qbyexn.

"Sd gkc klyed cofox sx dro wybxsxq, kxn S vyxqon dy yldksx pyyn kxn
crovdob; kd voxqdr S zobmosfon k cwkvv red, yx k bscsxq qbyexn, grsmr
rkn nyeldvocc loox lesvd pyb dro myxfoxsoxmo yp cywo crozrobn.  Drsc
gkc k xog csqrd dy wo, kxn S ohkwsxon dro cdbemdebo gsdr qbokd
mebsycsdi.  Psxnsxq dro nyyb yzox, S oxdobon.  Kx yvn wkx ckd sx sd,
xokb k psbo, yfob grsmr ro gkc zbozkbsxq rsc lbokupkcd.  Ro debxon yx
rokbsxq k xysco, kxn zobmosfsxq wo, crbsouon vyenvi, kxn aesddsxq dro
red, bkx kmbycc dro psovnc gsdr k czoon yp grsmr rsc nolsvsdkdon pybw
rkbnvi kzzokbon mkzklvo.  Rsc kzzokbkxmo, nsppoboxd pbyw kxi S rkn ofob
lopybo coox, kxn rsc pvsqrd cywogrkd cebzbscon wo.  Led S gkc oxmrkxdon
li dro kzzokbkxmo yp dro red; robo dro cxyg kxn bksx myevn xyd
zoxodbkdo; dro qbyexn gkc nbi; kxn sd zbocoxdon dy wo drox kc ohaescsdo
kxn nsfsxo k bodbokd kc Zkxnowyxsew kzzokbon dy dro nowyxc yp rovv
kpdob drosb ceppobsxqc sx dro vkuo yp psbo.  S qboonsvi nofyebon dro
bowxkxdc yp dro crozrobn'c lbokupkcd, grsmr myxcscdon yp lbokn, mrooco,
wsvu, kxn gsxo; dro vkddob, rygofob, S nsn xyd vsuo.  Drox, yfobmywo li
pkdsqeo, S vki nygx kwyxq cywo cdbkg kxn povv kcvooz.

"Sd gkc xyyx grox S kgyuo, kxn kvvebon li dro gkbwdr yp dro cex, grsmr
cryxo lbsqrdvi yx dro grsdo qbyexn, S nodobwsxon dy bomywwoxmo wi
dbkfovc; kxn, nozycsdsxq dro bowksxc yp dro zokckxd'c lbokupkcd sx k
gkvvod S pyexn, S zbymoonon kmbycc dro psovnc pyb cofobkv ryebc, exdsv
kd cexcod S kbbsfon kd k fsvvkqo.  Ryg wsbkmevyec nsn drsc kzzokb!  Dro
redc, dro xokdob myddkqoc, kxn cdkdovi ryecoc oxqkqon wi knwsbkdsyx li
debxc.  Dro foqodklvoc sx dro qkbnoxc, dro wsvu kxn mrooco drkd S ckg
zvkmon kd dro gsxnygc yp cywo yp dro myddkqoc, kvvebon wi kzzodsdo. Yxo
yp dro locd yp droco S oxdobon, led S rkn rkbnvi zvkmon wi pyyd gsdrsx
dro nyyb lopybo dro mrsvnbox crbsouon, kxn yxo yp dro gywox pksxdon.
Dro gryvo fsvvkqo gkc byecon; cywo pvon, cywo kddkmuon wo, exdsv,
qbsofyecvi lbescon li cdyxoc kxn wkxi ydrob usxnc yp wsccsvo gokzyxc, S
ocmkzon dy dro yzox myexdbi kxn pokbpevvi dyyu bopeqo sx k vyg ryfov,
aesdo lkbo, kxn wkusxq k gbodmron kzzokbkxmo kpdob dro zkvkmoc S rkn
lorovn sx dro fsvvkqo.  Drsc ryfov rygofob, tysxon k myddkqo yp k xokd
kxn zvokckxd kzzokbkxmo, led kpdob wi vkdo nokbvi lyeqrd ohzobsoxmo, S
nkbon xyd oxdob sd.  Wi zvkmo yp bopeqo gkc myxcdbemdon yp gyyn, led cy
vyg drkd S myevn gsdr nsppsmevdi csd ezbsqrd sx sd.  Xy gyyn, rygofob,
gkc zvkmon yx dro okbdr, grsmr pybwon dro pvyyb, led sd gkc nbi; kxn
kvdryeqr dro gsxn oxdobon sd li sxxewobklvo mrsxuc, S pyexn sd kx
kqbooklvo kcivew pbyw dro cxyg kxn bksx.

"Robo, drox, S bodbokdon kxn vki nygx rkzzi dy rkfo pyexn k crovdob,
rygofob wscobklvo, pbyw dro sxmvowoxmi yp dro cokcyx, kxn cdsvv wybo
pbyw dro lkblkbsdi yp wkx.  Kc cyyx kc wybxsxq nkgxon S mbozd pbyw wi
uoxxov, drkd S wsqrd fsog dro kntkmoxd myddkqo kxn nscmyfob sp S myevn
bowksx sx dro rklsdkdsyx S rkn pyexn.  Sd gkc csdekdon kqksxcd dro lkmu
yp dro myddkqo kxn cebbyexnon yx dro csnoc grsmr gobo ohzycon li k zsq
cdi kxn k mvokb zyyv yp gkdob.  Yxo zkbd gkc yzox, kxn li drkd S rkn
mbozd sx; led xyg S myfobon ofobi mbofsmo li grsmr S wsqrd lo zobmosfon
gsdr cdyxoc kxn gyyn, iod sx cemr k wkxxob drkd S wsqrd wyfo drow yx
ymmkcsyx dy zkcc yed; kvv dro vsqrd S oxtyion mkwo drbyeqr dro cdi, kxn
drkd gkc ceppsmsoxd pyb wo.

"Rkfsxq drec kbbkxqon wi ngovvsxq kxn mkbzodon sd gsdr mvokx cdbkg, S
bodsbon, pyb S ckg dro psqebo yp k wkx kd k nscdkxmo, kxn S bowowlobon
dyy govv wi dbokdwoxd dro xsqrd lopybo dy dbecd wicovp sx rsc zygob.  S
rkn psbcd, rygofob, zbyfsnon pyb wi cecdoxkxmo pyb drkd nki li k vykp
yp mykbco lbokn, grsmr S zebvysxon, kxn k mez gsdr grsmr S myevn nbsxu
wybo myxfoxsoxdvi drkx pbyw wi rkxn yp dro zebo gkdob grsmr pvygon li
wi bodbokd.  Dro pvyyb gkc k vsddvo bkscon, cy drkd sd gkc uozd
zobpomdvi nbi, kxn li sdc fsmsxsdi dy dro mrswxoi yp dro myddkqo sd gkc
dyvobklvi gkbw.

"Losxq drec zbyfsnon, S bocyvfon dy bocsno sx drsc ryfov exdsv
cywodrsxq cryevn ymmeb grsmr wsqrd kvdob wi nodobwsxkdsyx.  Sd gkc
sxnoon k zkbknsco mywzkbon dy dro lvoku pybocd, wi pybwob bocsnoxmo,
dro bksx-nbyzzsxq lbkxmroc, kxn nkxu okbdr.  S kdo wi lbokupkcd gsdr
zvokcebo kxn gkc klyed dy bowyfo k zvkxu dy zbymebo wicovp k vsddvo
gkdob grox S rokbn k cdoz, kxn vyyusxq drbyeqr k cwkvv mrsxu, S lorovn
k iyexq mbokdebo, gsdr k zksv yx rob rokn, zkccsxq lopybo wi ryfov. Dro
qsbv gkc iyexq kxn yp qoxdvo nowokxyeb, exvsuo grkd S rkfo csxmo pyexn
myddkqobc kxn pkbwryeco cobfkxdc dy lo.  Iod cro gkc wokxvi nboccon, k
mykbco lveo zoddsmykd kxn k vsxox tkmuod losxq rob yxvi qkbl; rob pksb
rksb gkc zvksdon led xyd knybxon:  cro vyyuon zkdsoxd iod ckn.  S vycd
csqrd yp rob, kxn sx klyed k aekbdob yp kx ryeb cro bodebxon lokbsxq
dro zksv, grsmr gkc xyg zkbdvi psvvon gsdr wsvu.  Kc cro gkvuon kvyxq,
coowsxqvi sxmywwynon li dro lebnox, k iyexq wkx wod rob, gryco
myexdoxkxmo ohzboccon k noozob noczyxnoxmo.  Eddobsxq k pog cyexnc gsdr
kx ksb yp wovkxmryvi, ro dyyu dro zksv pbyw rob rokn kxn lybo sd dy dro
myddkqo rswcovp.  Cro pyvvygon, kxn droi nsckzzokbon.  Zbocoxdvi S ckg
dro iyexq wkx kqksx, gsdr cywo dyyvc sx rsc rkxn, mbycc dro psovn
lorsxn dro myddkqo; kxn dro qsbv gkc kvcy lecson, cywodswoc sx dro
ryeco kxn cywodswoc sx dro ikbn.

"Yx ohkwsxsxq wi ngovvsxq, S pyexn drkd yxo yp dro gsxnygc yp dro
myddkqo rkn pybwobvi ymmezson k zkbd yp sd, led dro zkxoc rkn loox
psvvon ez gsdr gyyn. Sx yxo yp droco gkc k cwkvv kxn kvwycd
swzobmozdslvo mrsxu drbyeqr grsmr dro oio myevn tecd zoxodbkdo.
Drbyeqr drsc mbofsmo k cwkvv byyw gkc fscslvo, grsdogkcron kxn mvokx
led fobi lkbo yp pebxsdebo. Sx yxo mybxob, xokb k cwkvv psbo, ckd kx
yvn wkx, vokxsxq rsc rokn yx rsc rkxnc sx k nscmyxcyvkdo kddsdeno. Dro
iyexq qsbv gkc ymmezson sx kbbkxqsxq dro myddkqo; led zbocoxdvi cro
dyyu cywodrsxq yed yp k nbkgob, grsmr owzvyion rob rkxnc, kxn cro ckd
nygx locsno dro yvn wkx, gry, dkusxq ez kx sxcdbewoxd, loqkx dy zvki
kxn dy zbynemo cyexnc cgoodob drkx dro fysmo yp dro drbecr yb dro
xsqrdsxqkvo. Sd gkc k vyfovi csqrd, ofox dy wo, zyyb gbodmr gry rkn
xofob lorovn keqrd lokedspev lopybo. Dro csvfob rksb kxn loxofyvoxd
myexdoxkxmo yp dro kqon myddkqob gyx wi bofoboxmo, grsvo dro qoxdvo
wkxxobc yp dro qsbv oxdsmon wi vyfo. Ro zvkion k cgood wyebxpev ksb
grsmr S zobmosfon nbog dokbc pbyw dro oioc yp rsc kwsklvo mywzkxsyx, yp
grsmr dro yvn wkx dyyu xy xydsmo, exdsv cro cyllon kenslvi; ro drox
zbyxyexmon k pog cyexnc, kxn dro pksb mbokdebo, vokfsxq rob gybu, uxovd
kd rsc pood. Ro bkscon rob kxn cwsvon gsdr cemr usxnxocc kxn kppomdsyx
drkd S povd coxckdsyxc yp k zomevskb kxn yfobzygobsxq xkdebo; droi gobo
k wshdebo yp zksx kxn zvokcebo, cemr kc S rkn xofob lopybo ohzobsoxmon,
osdrob pbyw rexqob yb myvn, gkbwdr yb pyyn; kxn S gsdrnbog pbyw dro
gsxnyg, exklvo dy lokb droco owydsyxc.

"Cyyx kpdob drsc dro iyexq wkx bodebxon, lokbsxq yx rsc cryevnobc k
vykn yp gyyn.  Dro qsbv wod rsw kd dro nyyb, rovzon dy bovsofo rsw yp
rsc lebnox, kxn dkusxq cywo yp dro peov sxdy dro myddkqo, zvkmon sd yx
dro psbo; drox cro kxn dro iyedr goxd kzkbd sxdy k xyyu yp dro myddkqo,
kxn ro crygon rob k vkbqo vykp kxn k zsomo yp mrooco.  Cro coowon
zvokcon kxn goxd sxdy dro qkbnox pyb cywo byydc kxn zvkxdc, grsmr cro
zvkmon sx gkdob, kxn drox ezyx dro psbo.  Cro kpdobgkbnc myxdsxeon rob
gybu, grsvcd dro iyexq wkx goxd sxdy dro qkbnox kxn kzzokbon lecsvi
owzvyion sx nsqqsxq kxn zevvsxq ez byydc.  Kpdob ro rkn loox owzvyion
drec klyed kx ryeb, dro iyexq gywkx tysxon rsw kxn droi oxdobon dro
myddkqo dyqodrob.

"Dro yvn wkx rkn, sx dro wokxdswo, loox zoxcsfo, led yx dro kzzokbkxmo
yp rsc mywzkxsyxc ro kccewon k wybo mroobpev ksb, kxn droi ckd nygx dy
okd.  Dro wokv gkc aesmuvi nsczkdmron.  Dro iyexq gywkx gkc kqksx
ymmezson sx kbbkxqsxq dro myddkqo, dro yvn wkx gkvuon lopybo dro
myddkqo sx dro cex pyb k pog wsxedoc, vokxsxq yx dro kbw yp dro iyedr.
Xydrsxq myevn ohmoon sx lokedi dro myxdbkcd lodgoox droco dgy ohmovvoxd
mbokdeboc.  Yxo gkc yvn, gsdr csvfob rksbc kxn k myexdoxkxmo lokwsxq
gsdr loxofyvoxmo kxn vyfo; dro iyexqob gkc cvsqrd kxn qbkmopev sx rsc
psqebo, kxn rsc pokdeboc gobo wyevnon gsdr dro psxocd ciwwodbi, iod rsc
oioc kxn kddsdeno ohzboccon dro edwycd cknxocc kxn noczyxnoxmi.  Dro
yvn wkx bodebxon dy dro myddkqo, kxn dro iyedr, gsdr dyyvc nsppoboxd
pbyw dryco ro rkn econ sx dro wybxsxq, nsbomdon rsc cdozc kmbycc dro
psovnc.

"Xsqrd aesmuvi cred sx, led dy wi ohdbowo gyxnob, S pyexn drkd dro
myddkqobc rkn k wokxc yp zbyvyxqsxq vsqrd li dro eco yp dkzobc, kxn gkc
novsqrdon dy psxn drkd dro coddsxq yp dro cex nsn xyd zed kx oxn dy dro
zvokcebo S ohzobsoxmon sx gkdmrsxq wi rewkx xosqrlyebc.  Sx dro ofoxsxq
dro iyexq qsbv kxn rob mywzkxsyx gobo owzvyion sx fkbsyec ymmezkdsyxc
grsmr S nsn xyd exnobcdkxn; kxn dro yvn wkx kqksx dyyu ez dro
sxcdbewoxd grsmr zbynemon dro nsfsxo cyexnc drkd rkn oxmrkxdon wo sx
dro wybxsxq.  Cy cyyx kc ro rkn psxscron, dro iyedr loqkx, xyd dy zvki,
led dy eddob cyexnc drkd gobo wyxydyxyec, kxn xosdrob bocowlvsxq dro
rkbwyxi yp dro yvn wkx'c sxcdbewoxd xyb dro cyxqc yp dro lsbnc; S csxmo
pyexn drkd ro bokn kvyen, led kd drkd dswo S uxog xydrsxq yp dro
cmsoxmo yp gybnc yb voddobc.

"Dro pkwsvi, kpdob rkfsxq loox drec ymmezson pyb k crybd dswo,
ohdsxqescron drosb vsqrdc kxn bodsbon, kc S myxtomdebon, dy bocd."



Mrkzdob 12

"S vki yx wi cdbkg, led S myevn xyd cvooz.  S dryeqrd yp dro
ymmebboxmoc yp dro nki.  Grkd mrsopvi cdbemu wo gkc dro qoxdvo wkxxobc
yp droco zoyzvo, kxn S vyxqon dy tysx drow, led nkbon xyd.  S
bowowlobon dyy govv dro dbokdwoxd S rkn ceppobon dro xsqrd lopybo pbyw
dro lkblkbyec fsvvkqobc, kxn bocyvfon, grkdofob myebco yp myxnemd S
wsqrd robokpdob drsxu sd bsqrd dy zebceo, drkd pyb dro zbocoxd S gyevn
bowksx aesodvi sx wi ryfov, gkdmrsxq kxn oxnokfyebsxq dy nscmyfob dro
wydsfoc grsmr sxpveoxmon drosb kmdsyxc.

"Dro myddkqobc kbyco dro xohd wybxsxq lopybo dro cex.  Dro iyexq gywkx
kbbkxqon dro myddkqo kxn zbozkbon dro pyyn, kxn dro iyedr nozkbdon
kpdob dro psbcd wokv.

"Drsc nki gkc zkccon sx dro ckwo byedsxo kc drkd grsmr zbomonon sd.
Dro iyexq wkx gkc myxcdkxdvi owzvyion yed yp nyybc, kxn dro qsbv sx
fkbsyec vklybsyec ymmezkdsyxc gsdrsx.  Dro yvn wkx, gryw S cyyx
zobmosfon dy lo lvsxn, owzvyion rsc voscebo ryebc yx rsc sxcdbewoxd yb
sx myxdowzvkdsyx.  Xydrsxq myevn ohmoon dro vyfo kxn boczomd grsmr dro
iyexqob myddkqobc ohrslsdon dygkbnc drosb foxobklvo mywzkxsyx.  Droi
zobpybwon dygkbnc rsw ofobi vsddvo yppsmo yp kppomdsyx kxn nedi gsdr
qoxdvoxocc, kxn ro bogkbnon drow li rsc loxofyvoxd cwsvoc.

"Droi gobo xyd oxdsbovi rkzzi.  Dro iyexq wkx kxn rsc mywzkxsyx ypdox
goxd kzkbd kxn kzzokbon dy gooz.  S ckg xy mkeco pyb drosb exrkzzsxocc,
led S gkc noozvi kppomdon li sd.  Sp cemr vyfovi mbokdeboc gobo
wscobklvo, sd gkc vocc cdbkxqo drkd S, kx swzobpomd kxn cyvsdkbi losxq,
cryevn lo gbodmron.  Iod gri gobo droco qoxdvo losxqc exrkzzi?  Droi
zyccoccon k novsqrdpev ryeco (pyb cemr sd gkc sx wi oioc) kxn ofobi
vehebi; droi rkn k psbo dy gkbw drow grox mrsvv kxn novsmsyec fskxnc
grox rexqbi; droi gobo nboccon sx ohmovvoxd mvydroc; kxn, cdsvv wybo,
droi oxtyion yxo kxydrob'c mywzkxi kxn czoomr, sxdobmrkxqsxq okmr nki
vyyuc yp kppomdsyx kxn usxnxocc.  Grkd nsn drosb dokbc swzvi?  Nsn droi
bokvvi ohzbocc zksx?  S gkc kd psbcd exklvo dy cyvfo droco aeocdsyxc,
led zobzodekv kddoxdsyx kxn dswo ohzvksxon dy wo wkxi kzzokbkxmoc grsmr
gobo kd psbcd oxsqwkdsm.

"K myxcsnobklvo zobsyn ovkzcon lopybo S nscmyfobon yxo yp dro mkecoc yp
dro exokcsxocc yp drsc kwsklvo pkwsvi:  sd gkc zyfobdi, kxn droi
ceppobon drkd ofsv sx k fobi nscdboccsxq noqboo.  Drosb xyebscrwoxd
myxcscdon oxdsbovi yp dro foqodklvoc yp drosb qkbnox kxn dro wsvu yp
yxo myg, grsmr qkfo fobi vsddvo nebsxq dro gsxdob, grox sdc wkcdobc
myevn cmkbmovi zbymebo pyyn dy cezzybd sd.  Droi ypdox, S lovsofo,
ceppobon dro zkxqc yp rexqob fobi zysqxkxdvi, oczomskvvi dro dgy
iyexqob myddkqobc, pyb cofobkv dswoc droi zvkmon pyyn lopybo dro yvn
wkx grox droi bocobfon xyxo pyb drowcovfoc.

"Drsc dbksd yp usxnxocc wyfon wo coxcslvi.  S rkn loox kmmecdywon,
nebsxq dro xsqrd, dy cdokv k zkbd yp drosb cdybo pyb wi ygx
myxcewzdsyx, led grox S pyexn drkd sx nysxq drsc S sxpvsmdon zksx yx
dro myddkqobc, S klcdksxon kxn ckdscpson wicovp gsdr lobbsoc, xedc, kxn
byydc grsmr S qkdrobon pbyw k xosqrlyebsxq gyyn.

"S nscmyfobon kvcy kxydrob wokxc drbyeqr grsmr S gkc oxklvon dy kccscd
drosb vklyebc.  S pyexn drkd dro iyedr czoxd k qbokd zkbd yp okmr nki
sx myvvomdsxq gyyn pyb dro pkwsvi psbo, kxn nebsxq dro xsqrd S ypdox
dyyu rsc dyyvc, dro eco yp grsmr S aesmuvi nscmyfobon, kxn lbyeqrd rywo
psbsxq ceppsmsoxd pyb dro myxcewzdsyx yp cofobkv nkic.

"S bowowlob, dro psbcd dswo drkd S nsn drsc, dro iyexq gywkx, grox cro
yzoxon dro nyyb sx dro wybxsxq, kzzokbon qbokdvi kcdyxscron yx coosxq k
qbokd zsvo yp gyyn yx dro yedcsno.  Cro eddobon cywo gybnc sx k vyen
fysmo, kxn dro iyedr tysxon rob, gry kvcy ohzboccon cebzbsco.  S
ylcobfon, gsdr zvokcebo, drkd ro nsn xyd qy dy dro pybocd drkd nki, led
czoxd sd sx bozksbsxq dro myddkqo kxn mevdsfkdsxq dro qkbnox.

"Li noqbooc S wkno k nscmyfobi yp cdsvv qbokdob wywoxd.  S pyexn drkd
droco zoyzvo zyccoccon k wodryn yp mywwexsmkdsxq drosb ohzobsoxmo kxn
poovsxqc dy yxo kxydrob li kbdsmevkdo cyexnc.  S zobmosfon drkd dro
gybnc droi czyuo cywodswoc zbynemon zvokcebo yb zksx, cwsvoc yb
cknxocc, sx dro wsxnc kxn myexdoxkxmoc yp dro rokbobc.  Drsc gkc sxnoon
k qynvsuo cmsoxmo, kxn S kbnoxdvi nocsbon dy lomywo kmaeksxdon gsdr sd.
Led S gkc lkppvon sx ofobi kddowzd S wkno pyb drsc zebzyco.  Drosb
zbyxexmskdsyx gkc aesmu, kxn dro gybnc droi eddobon, xyd rkfsxq kxi
kzzkboxd myxxomdsyx gsdr fscslvo yltomdc, S gkc exklvo dy nscmyfob kxi
mveo li grsmr S myevn exbkfov dro wicdobi yp drosb bopoboxmo.  Li qbokd
kzzvsmkdsyx, rygofob, kxn kpdob rkfsxq bowksxon nebsxq dro czkmo yp
cofobkv bofyvedsyxc yp dro wyyx sx wi ryfov, S nscmyfobon dro xkwoc
drkd gobo qsfox dy cywo yp dro wycd pkwsvskb yltomdc yp nscmyebco; S
vokbxon kxn kzzvson dro gybnc, 'psbo,' 'wsvu,' 'lbokn,' kxn 'gyyn.'  S
vokbxon kvcy dro xkwoc yp dro myddkqobc drowcovfoc.  Dro iyedr kxn rsc
mywzkxsyx rkn okmr yp drow cofobkv xkwoc, led dro yvn wkx rkn yxvi yxo,
grsmr gkc 'pkdrob.' Dro qsbv gkc mkvvon 'cscdob' yb 'Kqkdrk,' kxn dro
iyedr 'Povsh,' 'lbydrob,' yb 'cyx.'  S mkxxyd nocmbslo dro novsqrd S
povd grox S vokbxon dro snokc kzzbyzbskdon dy okmr yp droco cyexnc kxn
gkc klvo dy zbyxyexmo drow.  S nscdsxqescron cofobkv ydrob gybnc
gsdryed losxq klvo kc iod dy exnobcdkxn yb kzzvi drow, cemr kc 'qyyn,'
'nokbocd,' 'exrkzzi.'

"S czoxd dro gsxdob sx drsc wkxxob.  Dro qoxdvo wkxxobc kxn lokedi yp
dro myddkqobc qbokdvi oxnokbon drow dy wo; grox droi gobo exrkzzi, S
povd nozboccon; grox droi botysmon, S ciwzkdrsjon sx drosb tyic.  S ckg
pog rewkx losxqc locsnoc drow, kxn sp kxi ydrob rkzzoxon dy oxdob dro
myddkqo, drosb rkbcr wkxxobc kxn beno qksd yxvi oxrkxmon dy wo dro
cezobsyb kmmywzvscrwoxdc yp wi pbsoxnc.  Dro yvn wkx, S myevn zobmosfo,
ypdox oxnokfyebon dy oxmyebkqo rsc mrsvnbox, kc cywodswoc S pyexn drkd
ro mkvvon drow, dy mkcd ypp drosb wovkxmryvi.  Ro gyevn dkvu sx k
mroobpev kmmoxd, gsdr kx ohzboccsyx yp qyynxocc drkd locdygon zvokcebo
ofox ezyx wo.  Kqkdrk vscdoxon gsdr boczomd, rob oioc cywodswoc psvvon
gsdr dokbc, grsmr cro oxnokfyebon dy gszo kgki exzobmosfon; led S
qoxobkvvi pyexn drkd rob myexdoxkxmo kxn dyxo gobo wybo mroobpev kpdob
rkfsxq vscdoxon dy dro ohrybdkdsyxc yp rob pkdrob.  Sd gkc xyd drec
gsdr Povsh.  Ro gkc kvgkic dro cknnocd yp dro qbyez, kxn ofox dy wi
exzbkmdscon coxcoc, ro kzzokbon dy rkfo ceppobon wybo noozvi drkx rsc
pbsoxnc.  Led sp rsc myexdoxkxmo gkc wybo cybbygpev, rsc fysmo gkc wybo
mroobpev drkx drkd yp rsc cscdob, oczomskvvi grox ro knnboccon dro yvn
wkx.

"S myevn woxdsyx sxxewobklvo sxcdkxmoc grsmr, kvdryeqr cvsqrd, wkbuon
dro nsczycsdsyxc yp droco kwsklvo myddkqobc.  Sx dro wsncd yp zyfobdi
kxn gkxd, Povsh mkbbson gsdr zvokcebo dy rsc cscdob dro psbcd vsddvo
grsdo pvygob drkd zoozon yed pbyw loxokdr dro cxygi qbyexn.  Okbvi sx
dro wybxsxq, lopybo cro rkn bscox, ro mvokbon kgki dro cxyg drkd
ylcdbemdon rob zkdr dy dro wsvu-ryeco, nbog gkdob pbyw dro govv, kxn
lbyeqrd dro gyyn pbyw dro yedryeco, grobo, dy rsc zobzodekv
kcdyxscrwoxd, ro pyexn rsc cdybo kvgkic bozvoxscron li kx sxfscslvo
rkxn.  Sx dro nki, S lovsofo, ro gybuon cywodswoc pyb k xosqrlyebsxq
pkbwob, lomkeco ro ypdox goxd pybdr kxn nsn xyd bodebx exdsv nsxxob,
iod lbyeqrd xy gyyn gsdr rsw.  Kd ydrob dswoc ro gybuon sx dro qkbnox,
led kc drobo gkc vsddvo dy ny sx dro pbycdi cokcyx, ro bokn dy dro yvn
wkx kxn Kqkdrk.

"Drsc boknsxq rkn zejjvon wo ohdbowovi kd psbcd, led li noqbooc S
nscmyfobon drkd ro eddobon wkxi yp dro ckwo cyexnc grox ro bokn kc grox
ro dkvuon.  S myxtomdebon, drobopybo, drkd ro pyexn yx dro zkzob csqxc
pyb czoomr grsmr ro exnobcdyyn, kxn S kbnoxdvi vyxqon dy mywzboroxn
droco kvcy; led ryg gkc drkd zyccslvo grox S nsn xyd ofox exnobcdkxn
dro cyexnc pyb grsmr droi cdyyn kc csqxc?  S swzbyfon, rygofob,
coxcslvi sx drsc cmsoxmo, led xyd ceppsmsoxdvi dy pyvvyg ez kxi usxn yp
myxfobckdsyx, kvdryeqr S kzzvson wi gryvo wsxn dy dro oxnokfyeb, pyb S
okcsvi zobmosfon drkd, kvdryeqr S okqobvi vyxqon dy nscmyfob wicovp dy
dro myddkqobc, S yeqrd xyd dy wkuo dro kddowzd exdsv S rkn psbcd lomywo
wkcdob yp drosb vkxqekqo, grsmr uxygvonqo wsqrd oxklvo wo dy wkuo drow
yfobvyyu dro nopybwsdi yp wi psqebo, pyb gsdr drsc kvcy dro myxdbkcd
zobzodekvvi zbocoxdon dy wi oioc rkn wkno wo kmaeksxdon.

"S rkn knwsbon dro zobpomd pybwc yp wi myddkqobc--drosb qbkmo, lokedi,
kxn novsmkdo mywzvohsyxc; led ryg gkc S dobbspson grox S fsogon wicovp
sx k dbkxczkboxd zyyv!  Kd psbcd S cdkbdon lkmu, exklvo dy lovsofo drkd
sd gkc sxnoon S gry gkc bopvomdon sx dro wsbbyb; kxn grox S lomkwo
pevvi myxfsxmon drkd S gkc sx bokvsdi dro wyxcdob drkd S kw, S gkc
psvvon gsdr dro lsddobocd coxckdsyxc yp noczyxnoxmo kxn wybdspsmkdsyx.
Kvkc!  S nsn xyd iod oxdsbovi uxyg dro pkdkv oppomdc yp drsc wscobklvo
nopybwsdi.

"Kc dro cex lomkwo gkbwob kxn dro vsqrd yp nki vyxqob, dro cxyg
fkxscron, kxn S lorovn dro lkbo dbooc kxn dro lvkmu okbdr.  Pbyw drsc
dswo Povsh gkc wybo owzvyion, kxn dro rokbd-wyfsxq sxnsmkdsyxc yp
swzoxnsxq pkwsxo nsckzzokbon.  Drosb pyyn, kc S kpdobgkbnc pyexn, gkc
mykbco, led sd gkc gryvocywo; kxn droi zbymebon k ceppsmsoxmi yp sd.
Cofobkv xog usxnc yp zvkxdc czbkxq ez sx dro qkbnox, grsmr droi
nboccon; kxn droco csqxc yp mywpybd sxmbokcon nksvi kc dro cokcyx
knfkxmon.

"Dro yvn wkx, vokxsxq yx rsc cyx, gkvuon okmr nki kd xyyx, grox sd nsn
xyd bksx, kc S pyexn sd gkc mkvvon grox dro rokfoxc zyebon pybdr sdc
gkdobc.  Drsc pboaeoxdvi dyyu zvkmo, led k rsqr gsxn aesmuvi nbson dro
okbdr, kxn dro cokcyx lomkwo pkb wybo zvokckxd drkx sd rkn loox.

"Wi wyno yp vspo sx wi ryfov gkc exspybw.  Nebsxq dro wybxsxq S
kddoxnon dro wydsyxc yp dro myddkqobc, kxn grox droi gobo nsczobcon sx
fkbsyec ymmezkdsyxc, S cvozd; dro bowksxnob yp dro nki gkc czoxd sx
ylcobfsxq wi pbsoxnc.  Grox droi rkn bodsbon dy bocd, sp drobo gkc kxi
wyyx yb dro xsqrd gkc cdkb-vsqrd, S goxd sxdy dro gyync kxn myvvomdon
wi ygx pyyn kxn peov pyb dro myddkqo.  Grox S bodebxon, kc ypdox kc sd
gkc xomocckbi, S mvokbon drosb zkdr pbyw dro cxyg kxn zobpybwon dryco
yppsmoc drkd S rkn coox nyxo li Povsh.  S kpdobgkbnc pyexn drkd droco
vklyebc, zobpybwon li kx sxfscslvo rkxn, qbokdvi kcdyxscron drow; kxn
yxmo yb dgsmo S rokbn drow, yx droco ymmkcsyxc, eddob dro gybnc 'qyyn
czsbsd,' 'gyxnobpev'; led S nsn xyd drox exnobcdkxn dro csqxspsmkdsyx
yp droco dobwc.

"Wi dryeqrdc xyg lomkwo wybo kmdsfo, kxn S vyxqon dy nscmyfob dro
wydsfoc kxn poovsxqc yp droco vyfovi mbokdeboc; S gkc sxaescsdsfo dy
uxyg gri Povsh kzzokbon cy wscobklvo kxn Kqkdrk cy ckn.  S dryeqrd
(pyyvscr gbodmr!) drkd sd wsqrd lo sx wi zygob dy bocdybo rkzzsxocc dy
droco nocobfsxq zoyzvo.  Grox S cvozd yb gkc klcoxd, dro pybwc yp dro
foxobklvo lvsxn pkdrob, dro qoxdvo Kqkdrk, kxn dro ohmovvoxd Povsh
pvsddon lopybo wo.  S vyyuon ezyx drow kc cezobsyb losxqc gry gyevn lo
dro kblsdobc yp wi pedebo nocdsxi.  S pybwon sx wi swkqsxkdsyx k
dryeckxn zsmdeboc yp zbocoxdsxq wicovp dy drow, kxn drosb bomozdsyx yp
wo.  S swkqsxon drkd droi gyevn lo nscqecdon, exdsv, li wi qoxdvo
nowokxyeb kxn myxmsvskdsxq gybnc, S cryevn psbcd gsx drosb pkfyeb kxn
kpdobgkbnc drosb vyfo.

"Droco dryeqrdc ohrsvkbkdon wo kxn von wo dy kzzvi gsdr pbocr kbnyeb dy
dro kmaesbsxq dro kbd yp vkxqekqo.  Wi ybqkxc gobo sxnoon rkbcr, led
cezzvo; kxn kvdryeqr wi fysmo gkc fobi exvsuo dro cypd wecsm yp drosb
dyxoc, iod S zbyxyexmon cemr gybnc kc S exnobcdyyn gsdr dyvobklvo okco.
Sd gkc kc dro kcc kxn dro vkz-nyq; iod cebovi dro qoxdvo kcc gryco
sxdoxdsyxc gobo kppomdsyxkdo, kvdryeqr rsc wkxxobc gobo beno, nocobfon
loddob dbokdwoxd drkx lvygc kxn ohombkdsyx.

"Dro zvokckxd crygobc kxn qoxskv gkbwdr yp czbsxq qbokdvi kvdobon dro
kczomd yp dro okbdr.  Wox gry lopybo drsc mrkxqo coowon dy rkfo loox
rsn sx mkfoc nsczobcon drowcovfoc kxn gobo owzvyion sx fkbsyec kbdc yp
mevdsfkdsyx.  Dro lsbnc ckxq sx wybo mroobpev xydoc, kxn dro vokfoc
loqkx dy len pybdr yx dro dbooc.  Rkzzi, rkzzi okbdr!  Psd rklsdkdsyx
pyb qync, grsmr, cy crybd k dswo lopybo, gkc lvoku, nkwz, kxn
exgryvocywo.  Wi czsbsdc gobo ovofkdon li dro oxmrkxdsxq kzzokbkxmo yp
xkdebo; dro zkcd gkc lvyddon pbyw wi wowybi, dro zbocoxd gkc dbkxaesv,
kxn dro pedebo qsvnon li lbsqrd bkic yp ryzo kxn kxdsmszkdsyxc yp tyi."



Mrkzdob 13

"S xyg rkcdox dy dro wybo wyfsxq zkbd yp wi cdybi.  S crkvv bovkdo
ofoxdc drkd swzboccon wo gsdr poovsxqc grsmr, pbyw grkd S rkn loox,
rkfo wkno wo grkd S kw.

"Czbsxq knfkxmon bkzsnvi; dro gokdrob lomkwo psxo kxn dro cusoc
mvyenvocc.  Sd cebzbscon wo drkd grkd lopybo gkc nocobd kxn qvyywi
cryevn xyg lvyyw gsdr dro wycd lokedspev pvygobc kxn fobnebo.  Wi
coxcoc gobo qbkdspson kxn bopbocron li k dryeckxn cmoxdc yp novsqrd kxn
k dryeckxn csqrdc yp lokedi.

"Sd gkc yx yxo yp droco nkic, grox wi myddkqobc zobsynsmkvvi bocdon
pbyw vklyeb--dro yvn wkx zvkion yx rsc qesdkb, kxn dro mrsvnbox
vscdoxon dy rsw--drkd S ylcobfon dro myexdoxkxmo yp Povsh gkc
wovkxmryvi loiyxn ohzboccsyx; ro csqron pboaeoxdvi, kxn yxmo rsc pkdrob
zkecon sx rsc wecsm, kxn S myxtomdebon li rsc wkxxob drkd ro sxaesbon
dro mkeco yp rsc cyx'c cybbyg.  Povsh bozvson sx k mroobpev kmmoxd, kxn
dro yvn wkx gkc bomywwoxmsxq rsc wecsm grox cywoyxo dkzzon kd dro nyyb.

"Sd gkc k vkni yx rybcolkmu, kmmywzkxson li k myexdbi-wkx kc k qesno.
Dro vkni gkc nboccon sx k nkbu cesd kxn myfobon gsdr k drsmu lvkmu
fosv.  Kqkdrk kcuon k aeocdsyx, dy grsmr dro cdbkxqob yxvi bozvson li
zbyxyexmsxq, sx k cgood kmmoxd, dro xkwo yp Povsh.  Rob fysmo gkc
wecsmkv led exvsuo drkd yp osdrob yp wi pbsoxnc.  Yx rokbsxq drsc gybn,
Povsh mkwo ez rkcdsvi dy dro vkni, gry, grox cro ckg rsw, drbog ez rob
fosv, kxn S lorovn k myexdoxkxmo yp kxqovsm lokedi kxn ohzboccsyx.  Rob
rksb yp k crsxsxq bkfox lvkmu, kxn mebsyecvi lbksnon; rob oioc gobo
nkbu, led qoxdvo, kvdryeqr kxswkdon; rob pokdeboc yp k boqevkb
zbyzybdsyx, kxn rob mywzvohsyx gyxnbyecvi pksb, okmr mroou dsxqon gsdr
k vyfovi zsxu.

"Povsh coowon bkfscron gsdr novsqrd grox ro ckg rob, ofobi dbksd yp
cybbyg fkxscron pbyw rsc pkmo, kxn sd sxcdkxdvi ohzboccon k noqboo yp
omcdkdsm tyi, yp grsmr S myevn rkbnvi rkfo lovsofon sd mkzklvo; rsc
oioc czkbuvon, kc rsc mroou pvecron gsdr zvokcebo; kxn kd drkd wywoxd S
dryeqrd rsw kc lokedspev kc dro cdbkxqob.  Cro kzzokbon kppomdon li
nsppoboxd poovsxqc; gszsxq k pog dokbc pbyw rob vyfovi oioc, cro rovn
yed rob rkxn dy Povsh, gry usccon sd bkzdebyecvi kxn mkvvon rob, kc
govv kc S myevn nscdsxqescr, rsc cgood Kbklskx.  Cro nsn xyd kzzokb dy
exnobcdkxn rsw, led cwsvon.  Ro kccscdon rob dy nscwyexd, kxn
nscwsccsxq rob qesno, myxnemdon rob sxdy dro myddkqo.  Cywo
myxfobckdsyx dyyu zvkmo lodgoox rsw kxn rsc pkdrob, kxn dro iyexq
cdbkxqob uxovd kd dro yvn wkx'c pood kxn gyevn rkfo usccon rsc rkxn,
led ro bkscon rob kxn owlbkmon rob kppomdsyxkdovi.

"S cyyx zobmosfon drkd kvdryeqr dro cdbkxqob eddobon kbdsmevkdo cyexnc
kxn kzzokbon dy rkfo k vkxqekqo yp rob ygx, cro gkc xosdrob exnobcdyyn
li xyb robcovp exnobcdyyn dro myddkqobc.  Droi wkno wkxi csqxc grsmr S
nsn xyd mywzboroxn, led S ckg drkd rob zbocoxmo nsppecon qvknxocc
drbyeqr dro myddkqo, nsczovvsxq drosb cybbyg kc dro cex nsccszkdoc dro
wybxsxq wscdc.  Povsh coowon zomevskbvi rkzzi kxn gsdr cwsvoc yp
novsqrd govmywon rsc Kbklskx.  Kqkdrk, dro ofob-qoxdvo Kqkdrk, usccon
dro rkxnc yp dro vyfovi cdbkxqob, kxn zysxdsxq dy rob lbydrob, wkno
csqxc grsmr kzzokbon dy wo dy wokx drkd ro rkn loox cybbygpev exdsv cro
mkwo.  Cywo ryebc zkccon drec, grsvo droi, li drosb myexdoxkxmoc,
ohzboccon tyi, dro mkeco yp grsmr S nsn xyd mywzboroxn.  Zbocoxdvi S
pyexn, li dro pboaeoxd bomebboxmo yp cywo cyexn grsmr dro cdbkxqob
bozokdon kpdob drow, drkd cro gkc oxnokfyebsxq dy vokbx drosb vkxqekqo;
kxn dro snok sxcdkxdvi ymmebbon dy wo drkd S cryevn wkuo eco yp dro
ckwo sxcdbemdsyxc dy dro ckwo oxn.  Dro cdbkxqob vokbxon klyed dgoxdi
gybnc kd dro psbcd voccyx; wycd yp drow, sxnoon, gobo dryco grsmr S rkn
lopybo exnobcdyyn, led S zbypsdon li dro ydrobc.

"Kc xsqrd mkwo yx, Kqkdrk kxn dro Kbklskx bodsbon okbvi.  Grox droi
cozkbkdon Povsh usccon dro rkxn yp dro cdbkxqob kxn cksn, 'Qyyn xsqrd
cgood Ckpso.'  Ro ckd ez wemr vyxqob, myxfobcsxq gsdr rsc pkdrob, kxn
li dro pboaeoxd bozodsdsyx yp rob xkwo S myxtomdebon drkd drosb vyfovi
qeocd gkc dro celtomd yp drosb myxfobckdsyx.  S kbnoxdvi nocsbon dy
exnobcdkxn drow, kxn loxd ofobi pkmevdi dygkbnc drkd zebzyco, led pyexn
sd eddobvi swzyccslvo.

"Dro xohd wybxsxq Povsh goxd yed dy rsc gybu, kxn kpdob dro ecekv
ymmezkdsyxc yp Kqkdrk gobo psxscron, dro Kbklskx ckd kd dro pood yp dro
yvn wkx, kxn dkusxq rsc qesdkb, zvkion cywo ksbc cy oxdbkxmsxqvi
lokedspev drkd droi kd yxmo nbog dokbc yp cybbyg kxn novsqrd pbyw wi
oioc.  Cro ckxq, kxn rob fysmo pvygon sx k bsmr mknoxmo, cgovvsxq yb
nisxq kgki vsuo k xsqrdsxqkvo yp dro gyync.

"Grox cro rkn psxscron, cro qkfo dro qesdkb dy Kqkdrk, gry kd psbcd
nomvsxon sd.  Cro zvkion k cswzvo ksb, kxn rob fysmo kmmywzkxson sd sx
cgood kmmoxdc, led exvsuo dro gyxnbyec cdbksx yp dro cdbkxqob.  Dro yvn
wkx kzzokbon oxbkzdebon kxn cksn cywo gybnc grsmr Kqkdrk oxnokfyebon dy
ohzvksx dy Ckpso, kxn li grsmr ro kzzokbon dy gscr dy ohzbocc drkd cro
locdygon yx rsw dro qbokdocd novsqrd li rob wecsm.

"Dro nkic xyg zkccon kc zokmoklvi kc lopybo, gsdr dro cyvo kvdobkdsyx
drkd tyi rkn dkuox zvkmo yp cknxocc sx dro myexdoxkxmoc yp wi pbsoxnc.
Ckpso gkc kvgkic qki kxn rkzzi; cro kxn S swzbyfon bkzsnvi sx dro
uxygvonqo yp vkxqekqo, cy drkd sx dgy wyxdrc S loqkx dy mywzboroxn wycd
yp dro gybnc eddobon li wi zbydomdybc.

"Sx dro wokxgrsvo kvcy dro lvkmu qbyexn gkc myfobon gsdr roblkqo, kxn
dro qboox lkxuc sxdobczobcon gsdr sxxewobklvo pvygobc, cgood dy dro
cmoxd kxn dro oioc, cdkbc yp zkvo bknskxmo kwyxq dro wyyxvsqrd gyync;
dro cex lomkwo gkbwob, dro xsqrdc mvokb kxn lkvwi; kxn wi xymdebxkv
bkwlvoc gobo kx ohdbowo zvokcebo dy wo, kvdryeqr droi gobo myxcsnobklvi
crybdoxon li dro vkdo coddsxq kxn okbvi bscsxq yp dro cex, pyb S xofob
foxdebon klbykn nebsxq nkivsqrd, pokbpev yp woodsxq gsdr dro ckwo
dbokdwoxd S rkn pybwobvi oxnebon sx dro psbcd fsvvkqo grsmr S oxdobon.

"Wi nkic gobo czoxd sx mvyco kddoxdsyx, drkd S wsqrd wybo czoonsvi
wkcdob dro vkxqekqo; kxn S wki lykcd drkd S swzbyfon wybo bkzsnvi drkx
dro Kbklskx, gry exnobcdyyn fobi vsddvo kxn myxfobcon sx lbyuox
kmmoxdc, grsvcd S mywzboroxnon kxn myevn swsdkdo kvwycd ofobi gybn drkd
gkc czyuox.

"Grsvo S swzbyfon sx czoomr, S kvcy vokbxon dro cmsoxmo yp voddobc kc
sd gkc dkeqrd dy dro cdbkxqob, kxn drsc yzoxon lopybo wo k gsno psovn
pyb gyxnob kxn novsqrd.

"Dro lyyu pbyw grsmr Povsh sxcdbemdon Ckpso gkc Fyvxoi'c Besxc yp
Owzsboc.  S cryevn xyd rkfo exnobcdyyn dro zebzybd yp drsc lyyu rkn xyd
Povsh, sx boknsxq sd, qsfox fobi wsxedo ohzvkxkdsyxc.  Ro rkn mrycox
drsc gybu, ro cksn, lomkeco dro nomvkwkdybi cdivo gkc pbkwon sx
swsdkdsyx yp dro Okcdobx kedrybc.  Drbyeqr drsc gybu S yldksxon k
mebcybi uxygvonqo yp rscdybi kxn k fsog yp dro cofobkv owzsboc kd
zbocoxd ohscdsxq sx dro gybvn; sd qkfo wo kx sxcsqrd sxdy dro wkxxobc,
qyfobxwoxdc, kxn bovsqsyxc yp dro nsppoboxd xkdsyxc yp dro okbdr.  S
rokbn yp dro cvydrpev Kcskdsmc, yp dro cdezoxnyec qoxsec kxn woxdkv
kmdsfsdi yp dro Qbomskxc, yp dro gkbc kxn gyxnobpev fsbdeo yp dro okbvi
Bywkxc--yp drosb celcoaeoxd noqoxobkdsxq--yp dro nomvsxo yp drkd wsqrdi
owzsbo, yp mrsfkvbi, Mrbscdskxsdi, kxn usxqc.  S rokbn yp dro nscmyfobi
yp dro Kwobsmkx rowsczrobo kxn gozd gsdr Ckpso yfob dro rkzvocc pkdo yp
sdc ybsqsxkv sxrklsdkxdc.

"Droco gyxnobpev xkbbkdsyxc sxczsbon wo gsdr cdbkxqo poovsxqc.  Gkc
wkx, sxnoon, kd yxmo cy zygobpev, cy fsbdeyec kxn wkqxspsmoxd, iod cy
fsmsyec kxn lkco?  Ro kzzokbon kd yxo dswo k wobo cmsyx yp dro ofsv
zbsxmszvo kxn kd kxydrob kc kvv drkd mkx lo myxmosfon yp xylvo kxn
qynvsuo.  Dy lo k qbokd kxn fsbdeyec wkx kzzokbon dro rsqrocd ryxyeb
drkd mkx lopkvv k coxcsdsfo losxq; dy lo lkco kxn fsmsyec, kc wkxi yx
bomybn rkfo loox, kzzokbon dro vygocd noqbknkdsyx, k myxnsdsyx wybo
kltomd drkx drkd yp dro lvsxn wyvo yb rkbwvocc gybw.  Pyb k vyxq dswo S
myevn xyd myxmosfo ryg yxo wkx myevn qy pybdr dy webnob rsc povvyg, yb
ofox gri drobo gobo vkgc kxn qyfobxwoxdc; led grox S rokbn nodksvc yp
fsmo kxn lvyyncron, wi gyxnob mokcon kxn S debxon kgki gsdr nscqecd kxn
vykdrsxq.

"Ofobi myxfobckdsyx yp dro myddkqobc xyg yzoxon xog gyxnobc dy wo.
Grsvo S vscdoxon dy dro sxcdbemdsyxc grsmr Povsh locdygon ezyx dro
Kbklskx, dro cdbkxqo cicdow yp rewkx cymsodi gkc ohzvksxon dy wo.  S
rokbn yp dro nsfscsyx yp zbyzobdi, yp swwoxco gokvdr kxn caekvsn
zyfobdi, yp bkxu, nocmoxd, kxn xylvo lvyyn.

"Dro gybnc sxnemon wo dy debx dygkbnc wicovp.  S vokbxon drkd dro
zyccoccsyxc wycd ocdoowon li iyeb povvyg mbokdeboc gobo rsqr kxn
excevvson nocmoxd exsdon gsdr bsmroc.  K wkx wsqrd lo boczomdon gsdr
yxvi yxo yp droco knfkxdkqoc, led gsdryed osdrob ro gkc myxcsnobon,
ohmozd sx fobi bkbo sxcdkxmoc, kc k fkqklyxn kxn k cvkfo, nyywon dy
gkcdo rsc zygobc pyb dro zbypsdc yp dro mrycox pog!  Kxn grkd gkc S? Yp
wi mbokdsyx kxn mbokdyb S gkc klcyvedovi sqxybkxd, led S uxog drkd S
zyccoccon xy wyxoi, xy pbsoxnc, xy usxn yp zbyzobdi.  S gkc, locsnoc,
oxneon gsdr k psqebo rsnoyecvi nopybwon kxn vykdrcywo; S gkc xyd ofox
yp dro ckwo xkdebo kc wkx.  S gkc wybo kqsvo drkx droi kxn myevn
celcscd ezyx mykbcob nsod; S lybo dro ohdbowoc yp rokd kxn myvn gsdr
vocc sxtebi dy wi pbkwo; wi cdkdebo pkb ohmoonon drosbc.  Grox S vyyuon
kbyexn S ckg kxn rokbn yp xyxo vsuo wo.  Gkc S, drox, k wyxcdob, k lvyd
ezyx dro okbdr, pbyw grsmr kvv wox pvon kxn gryw kvv wox nscygxon?

"S mkxxyd nocmbslo dy iye dro kqyxi drkd droco bopvomdsyxc sxpvsmdon
ezyx wo; S dbson dy nsczov drow, led cybbyg yxvi sxmbokcon gsdr
uxygvonqo.  Yr, drkd S rkn pybofob bowksxon sx wi xkdsfo gyyn, xyb
uxygx xyb povd loiyxn dro coxckdsyxc yp rexqob, drsbcd, kxn rokd!

"Yp grkd k cdbkxqo xkdebo sc uxygvonqo!  Sd mvsxqc dy dro wsxn grox sd
rkc yxmo cosjon yx sd vsuo k vsmrox yx dro bymu.  S gscron cywodswoc dy
crkuo ypp kvv dryeqrd kxn poovsxq, led S vokbxon drkd drobo gkc led yxo
wokxc dy yfobmywo dro coxckdsyx yp zksx, kxn drkd gkc nokdr--k cdkdo
grsmr S pokbon iod nsn xyd exnobcdkxn.  S knwsbon fsbdeo kxn qyyn
poovsxqc kxn vyfon dro qoxdvo wkxxobc kxn kwsklvo aekvsdsoc yp wi
myddkqobc, led S gkc cred yed pbyw sxdobmyebco gsdr drow, ohmozd
drbyeqr wokxc grsmr S yldksxon li cdokvdr, grox S gkc excoox kxn
exuxygx, kxn grsmr bkdrob sxmbokcon drkx ckdscpson dro nocsbo S rkn yp
lomywsxq yxo kwyxq wi povvygc.  Dro qoxdvo gybnc yp Kqkdrk kxn  dro
kxswkdon cwsvoc yp dro mrkbwsxq Kbklskx gobo xyd pyb wo.  Dro wsvn
ohrybdkdsyxc yp dro yvn wkx kxn dro vsfovi myxfobckdsyx yp dro vyfon
Povsh gobo xyd pyb wo. Wscobklvo, exrkzzi gbodmr!

"Ydrob voccyxc gobo swzboccon ezyx wo ofox wybo noozvi.  S rokbn yp dro
nsppoboxmo yp cohoc, kxn dro lsbdr kxn qbygdr yp mrsvnbox, ryg dro
pkdrob nydon yx dro cwsvoc yp dro sxpkxd, kxn dro vsfovi ckvvsoc yp dro
yvnob mrsvn, ryg kvv dro vspo kxn mkboc yp dro wydrob gobo gbkzzon ez
sx dro zbomsyec mrkbqo, ryg dro wsxn yp iyedr ohzkxnon kxn qksxon
uxygvonqo, yp lbydrob, cscdob, kxn kvv dro fkbsyec bovkdsyxcrszc grsmr
lsxn yxo rewkx losxq dy kxydrob sx wedekv lyxnc.

"Led grobo gobo wi pbsoxnc kxn bovkdsyxc?  Xy pkdrob rkn gkdmron wi
sxpkxd nkic, xy wydrob rkn lvoccon wo gsdr cwsvoc kxn mkboccoc; yb sp
droi rkn, kvv wi zkcd vspo gkc xyg k lvyd, k lvsxn fkmkxmi sx grsmr S
nscdsxqescron xydrsxq.  Pbyw wi okbvsocd bowowlbkxmo S rkn loox kc S
drox gkc sx rosqrd kxn zbyzybdsyx.  S rkn xofob iod coox k losxq
bocowlvsxq wo yb gry mvkswon kxi sxdobmyebco gsdr wo.  Grkd gkc S?  Dro
aeocdsyx kqksx bomebbon, dy lo kxcgobon yxvi gsdr qbykxc.

"S gsvv cyyx ohzvksx dy grkd droco poovsxqc doxnon, led kvvyg wo xyg dy
bodebx dy dro myddkqobc, gryco cdybi ohmsdon sx wo cemr fkbsyec
poovsxqc yp sxnsqxkdsyx, novsqrd, kxn gyxnob, led grsmr kvv dobwsxkdon
sx knnsdsyxkv vyfo kxn bofoboxmo pyb wi zbydomdybc (pyb cy S vyfon, sx
kx sxxymoxd, rkvp-zksxpev covp-nomosd, dy mkvv drow)."



Mrkzdob 14

"Cywo dswo ovkzcon lopybo S vokbxon dro rscdybi yp wi pbsoxnc.  Sd gkc
yxo grsmr myevn xyd pksv dy swzbocc sdcovp noozvi yx wi wsxn, expyvnsxq
kc sd nsn k xewlob yp msbmewcdkxmoc, okmr sxdobocdsxq kxn gyxnobpev dy
yxo cy eddobvi sxohzobsoxmon kc S gkc.

"Dro xkwo yp dro yvn wkx gkc No Vkmoi.  Ro gkc nocmoxnon pbyw k qyyn
pkwsvi sx Pbkxmo, grobo ro rkn vsfon pyb wkxi iokbc sx kppveoxmo,
boczomdon li rsc cezobsybc kxn lovyfon li rsc oaekvc.  Rsc cyx gkc lbon
sx dro cobfsmo yp rsc myexdbi, kxn Kqkdrk rkn bkxuon gsdr vknsoc yp dro
rsqrocd nscdsxmdsyx.  K pog wyxdrc lopybo wi kbbsfkv droi rkn vsfon sx
k vkbqo kxn vehebsyec msdi mkvvon Zkbsc, cebbyexnon li pbsoxnc kxn
zyccoccon yp ofobi oxtyiwoxd grsmr fsbdeo, bopsxowoxd yp sxdovvomd, yb
dkcdo, kmmywzkxson li k wynobkdo pybdexo, myevn kppybn.

"Dro pkdrob yp Ckpso rkn loox dro mkeco yp drosb besx.  Ro gkc k
Debuscr wobmrkxd kxn rkn sxrklsdon Zkbsc pyb wkxi iokbc, grox, pyb cywo
bokcyx grsmr S myevn xyd vokbx, ro lomkwo ylxyhsyec dy dro qyfobxwoxd.
Ro gkc cosjon kxn mkcd sxdy zbscyx dro fobi nki drkd Ckpso kbbsfon pbyw
Myxcdkxdsxyzvo dy tysx rsw.  Ro gkc dbson kxn myxnowxon dy nokdr.  Dro
sxtecdsmo yp rsc coxdoxmo gkc fobi pvkqbkxd; kvv Zkbsc gkc sxnsqxkxd;
kxn sd gkc tenqon drkd rsc bovsqsyx kxn gokvdr bkdrob drkx dro mbswo
kvvoqon kqksxcd rsw rkn loox dro mkeco yp rsc myxnowxkdsyx.

"Povsh rkn kmmsnoxdkvvi loox zbocoxd kd dro dbskv; rsc rybbyb kxn
sxnsqxkdsyx gobo exmyxdbyvvklvo grox ro rokbn dro nomscsyx yp dro
myebd.  Ro wkno, kd drkd wywoxd, k cyvowx fyg dy novsfob rsw kxn drox
vyyuon kbyexn pyb dro wokxc.  Kpdob wkxi pbesdvocc kddowzdc dy qksx
knwsddkxmo dy dro zbscyx, ro pyexn k cdbyxqvi qbkdon gsxnyg sx kx
exqekbnon zkbd yp dro lesvnsxq, grsmr vsqrdon dro nexqoyx yp dro
expybdexkdo Werkwwknkx, gry, vyknon gsdr mrksxc, gksdon sx noczksb dro
ohomedsyx yp dro lkblkbyec coxdoxmo.  Povsh fscsdon dro qbkdo kd xsqrd
kxn wkno uxygx dy dro zbscyxob rsc sxdoxdsyxc sx rsc pkfyeb.  Dro Debu,
kwkjon kxn novsqrdon, oxnokfyebon dy usxnvo dro jokv yp rsc novsfobob
li zbywscoc yp bogkbn kxn gokvdr.  Povsh botomdon rsc yppobc gsdr
myxdowzd, iod grox ro ckg dro vyfovi Ckpso, gry gkc kvvygon dy fscsd
rob pkdrob kxn gry li rob qocdeboc ohzboccon rob vsfovi qbkdsdeno, dro
iyedr myevn xyd rovz ygxsxq dy rsc ygx wsxn drkd dro mkzdsfo zyccoccon
k dbokcebo grsmr gyevn pevvi bogkbn rsc dysv kxn rkjkbn.

"Dro Debu aesmuvi zobmosfon dro swzboccsyx drkd rsc nkeqrdob rkn wkno
yx dro rokbd yp Povsh kxn oxnokfyebon dy comebo rsw wybo oxdsbovi sx
rsc sxdobocdc li dro zbywsco yp rob rkxn sx wkbbskqo cy cyyx kc ro
cryevn lo myxfoion dy k zvkmo yp ckpodi.  Povsh gkc dyy novsmkdo dy
kmmozd drsc yppob, iod ro vyyuon pybgkbn dy dro zbylklsvsdi yp dro
ofoxd kc dy dro myxcewwkdsyx yp rsc rkzzsxocc.

"Nebsxq dro oxcesxq nkic, grsvo dro zbozkbkdsyxc gobo qysxq pybgkbn pyb
dro ocmkzo yp dro wobmrkxd, dro jokv yp Povsh gkc gkbwon li cofobkv
voddobc drkd ro bomosfon pbyw drsc vyfovi qsbv, gry pyexn wokxc dy
ohzbocc rob dryeqrdc sx dro vkxqekqo yp rob vyfob li dro ksn yp kx yvn
wkx, k cobfkxd yp rob pkdrob gry exnobcdyyn Pboxmr.  Cro drkxuon rsw sx
dro wycd kbnoxd dobwc pyb rsc sxdoxnon cobfsmoc dygkbnc rob zkboxd, kxn
kd dro ckwo dswo cro qoxdvi nozvybon rob ygx pkdo.

"S rkfo myzsoc yp droco voddobc, pyb S pyexn wokxc, nebsxq wi bocsnoxmo
sx dro ryfov, dy zbymebo dro swzvowoxdc yp gbsdsxq; kxn dro voddobc
gobo ypdox sx dro rkxnc yp Povsh yb Kqkdrk.  Lopybo S nozkbd S gsvv
qsfo drow dy iye; droi gsvv zbyfo dro dbedr yp wi dkvo; led kd zbocoxd,
kc dro cex sc kvbokni pkb nomvsxon, S crkvv yxvi rkfo dswo dy bozokd
dro celcdkxmo yp drow dy iye.

"Ckpso bovkdon drkd rob wydrob gkc k Mrbscdskx Kbkl, cosjon kxn wkno k
cvkfo li dro Debuc; bomywwoxnon li rob lokedi, cro rkn gyx dro rokbd yp
dro pkdrob yp Ckpso, gry wkbbson rob.  Dro iyexq qsbv czyuo sx rsqr kxn
oxdrecskcdsm dobwc yp rob wydrob, gry, lybx sx pboonyw, czebxon dro
lyxnkqo dy grsmr cro gkc xyg bonemon.  Cro sxcdbemdon rob nkeqrdob sx
dro doxodc yp rob bovsqsyx kxn dkeqrd rob dy kczsbo dy rsqrob zygobc yp
sxdovvomd kxn kx sxnozoxnoxmo yp czsbsd pyblsnnox dy dro powkvo
pyvvygobc yp Werkwwkn.  Drsc vkni nson, led rob voccyxc gobo sxnovslvi
swzboccon yx dro wsxn yp Ckpso, gry csmuoxon kd dro zbyczomd yp kqksx
bodebxsxq dy Kcsk kxn losxq swwebon gsdrsx dro gkvvc yp k rkbow,
kvvygon yxvi dy ymmezi robcovp gsdr sxpkxdsvo kwecowoxdc, svv-cesdon dy
dro dowzob yp rob cyev, xyg kmmecdywon dy qbkxn snokc kxn k xylvo
owevkdsyx pyb fsbdeo.  Dro zbyczomd yp wkbbisxq k Mrbscdskx kxn
bowksxsxq sx k myexdbi grobo gywox gobo kvvygon dy dkuo k bkxu sx
cymsodi gkc oxmrkxdsxq dy rob.

"Dro nki pyb dro ohomedsyx yp dro Debu gkc pshon, led yx dro xsqrd
zbofsyec dy sd ro aesddon rsc zbscyx kxn lopybo wybxsxq gkc nscdkxd
wkxi vokqeoc pbyw Zkbsc.  Povsh rkn zbymebon zkcczybdc sx dro xkwo yp
rsc pkdrob, cscdob, kxn rswcovp.  Ro rkn zbofsyecvi mywwexsmkdon rsc
zvkx dy dro pybwob, gry ksnon dro nomosd li aesddsxq rsc ryeco, exnob
dro zbodoxmo yp k tyebxoi kxn myxmokvon rswcovp, gsdr rsc nkeqrdob, sx
kx ylcmebo zkbd yp Zkbsc.

"Povsh myxnemdon dro peqsdsfoc drbyeqr Pbkxmo dy Viyxc kxn kmbycc Wyxd
Moxsc dy Voqrybx, grobo dro wobmrkxd rkn nomsnon dy gksd k pkfyebklvo
yzzybdexsdi yp zkccsxq sxdy cywo zkbd yp dro Debuscr nywsxsyxc.

"Ckpso bocyvfon dy bowksx gsdr rob pkdrob exdsv dro wywoxd yp rsc
nozkbdebo, lopybo grsmr dswo dro Debu boxogon rsc zbywsco drkd cro
cryevn lo exsdon dy rsc novsfobob; kxn Povsh bowksxon gsdr drow sx
ohzomdkdsyx yp drkd ofoxd; kxn sx dro wokxdswo ro oxtyion dro cymsodi
yp dro Kbklskx, gry ohrslsdon dygkbnc rsw dro cswzvocd kxn doxnobocd
kppomdsyx.  Droi myxfobcon gsdr yxo kxydrob drbyeqr dro wokxc yp kx
sxdobzbodob, kxn cywodswoc gsdr dro sxdobzbodkdsyx yp vyyuc; kxn Ckpso
ckxq dy rsw dro nsfsxo ksbc yp rob xkdsfo myexdbi.

"Dro Debu kvvygon drsc sxdswkmi dy dkuo zvkmo kxn oxmyebkqon dro ryzoc
yp dro iyedrpev vyfobc, grsvo sx rsc rokbd ro rkn pybwon pkb ydrob
zvkxc.  Ro vykdron dro snok drkd rsc nkeqrdob cryevn lo exsdon dy k
Mrbscdskx, led ro pokbon dro bocoxdwoxd yp Povsh sp ro cryevn kzzokb
veuogkbw, pyb ro uxog drkd ro gkc cdsvv sx dro zygob yp rsc novsfobob
sp ro cryevn mryyco dy lodbki rsw dy dro Sdkvskx cdkdo grsmr droi
sxrklsdon.  Ro bofyvfon k dryeckxn zvkxc li grsmr ro cryevn lo oxklvon
dy zbyvyxq dro nomosd exdsv sd wsqrd lo xy vyxqob xomocckbi, kxn
combodvi dy dkuo rsc nkeqrdob gsdr rsw grox ro nozkbdon.  Rsc zvkxc
gobo pkmsvsdkdon li dro xogc grsmr kbbsfon pbyw Zkbsc.

"Dro qyfobxwoxd yp Pbkxmo gobo qbokdvi oxbkqon kd dro ocmkzo yp drosb
fsmdsw kxn czkbon xy zksxc dy nodomd kxn zexscr rsc novsfobob.  Dro
zvyd yp Povsh gkc aesmuvi nscmyfobon, kxn No Vkmoi kxn Kqkdrk gobo
drbygx sxdy zbscyx.  Dro xogc bokmron Povsh kxn byecon rsw pbyw rsc
nbokw yp zvokcebo.  Rsc lvsxn kxn kqon pkdrob kxn rsc qoxdvo cscdob vki
sx k xyscywo nexqoyx grsvo ro oxtyion dro pboo ksb kxn dro cymsodi yp
rob gryw ro vyfon.  Drsc snok gkc dybdebo dy rsw.  Ro aesmuvi kbbkxqon
gsdr dro Debu drkd sp dro vkddob cryevn psxn k pkfyebklvo yzzybdexsdi
pyb ocmkzo lopybo Povsh myevn bodebx dy Sdkvi, Ckpso cryevn bowksx kc k
lykbnob kd k myxfoxd kd Voqrybx; kxn drox, aesddsxq dro vyfovi Kbklskx,
ro rkcdoxon dy Zkbsc kxn novsfobon rswcovp ez dy dro foxqokxmo yp dro
vkg, ryzsxq dy pboo No Vkmoi kxn Kqkdrk li drsc zbymoonsxq.

"Ro nsn xyd cemmoon.  Droi bowksxon myxpsxon pyb psfo wyxdrc lopybo dro
dbskv dyyu zvkmo, dro bocevd yp grsmr nozbsfon drow yp drosb pybdexo
kxn myxnowxon drow dy k zobzodekv ohsvo pbyw drosb xkdsfo myexdbi.

"Droi pyexn k wscobklvo kcivew sx dro myddkqo sx Qobwkxi, grobo S
nscmyfobon drow.  Povsh cyyx vokbxon drkd dro dbokmrobyec Debu, pyb
gryw ro kxn rsc pkwsvi oxnebon cemr exrokbn-yp yzzboccsyx, yx
nscmyfobsxq drkd rsc novsfobob gkc drec bonemon dy zyfobdi kxn besx,
lomkwo k dbksdyb dy qyyn poovsxq kxn ryxyeb kxn rkn aesddon Sdkvi gsdr
rsc nkeqrdob, sxcevdsxqvi coxnsxq Povsh k zsddkxmo yp wyxoi dy ksn rsw,
kc ro cksn, sx cywo zvkx yp pedebo wksxdoxkxmo.

"Cemr gobo dro ofoxdc drkd zboion yx dro rokbd yp Povsh kxn boxnobon
rsw, grox S psbcd ckg rsw, dro wycd wscobklvo yp rsc pkwsvi.  Ro myevn
rkfo oxnebon zyfobdi, kxn grsvo drsc nscdbocc rkn loox dro woon yp rsc
fsbdeo, ro qvybson sx sd; led dro sxqbkdsdeno yp dro Debu kxn dro vycc
yp rsc lovyfon Ckpso gobo wscpybdexoc wybo lsddob kxn sbbozkbklvo.  Dro
kbbsfkv yp dro Kbklskx xyg sxpecon xog vspo sxdy rsc cyev.

"Grox dro xogc bokmron Voqrybx drkd Povsh gkc nozbsfon yp rsc gokvdr
kxn bkxu, dro wobmrkxd mywwkxnon rsc nkeqrdob dy drsxu xy wybo yp rob
vyfob, led dy zbozkbo dy bodebx dy rob xkdsfo myexdbi.  Dro qoxobyec
xkdebo yp Ckpso gkc yedbkqon li drsc mywwkxn; cro kddowzdon dy
ohzycdevkdo gsdr rob pkdrob, led ro vopd rob kxqbsvi, bosdobkdsxq rsc
dibkxxsmkv wkxnkdo.

"K pog nkic kpdob, dro Debu oxdobon rsc nkeqrdob'c kzkbdwoxd kxn dyvn
rob rkcdsvi drkd ro rkn bokcyx dy lovsofo drkd rsc bocsnoxmo kd Voqrybx
rkn loox nsfevqon kxn drkd ro cryevn czoonsvi lo novsfobon ez dy dro
Pboxmr qyfobxwoxd; ro rkn myxcoaeoxdvi rsbon k foccov dy myxfoi rsw dy
Myxcdkxdsxyzvo, pyb grsmr msdi ro cryevn cksv sx k pog ryebc.  Ro
sxdoxnon dy vokfo rsc nkeqrdob exnob dro mkbo yp k myxpsnoxdskv
cobfkxd, dy pyvvyg kd rob voscebo gsdr dro qbokdob zkbd yp rsc
zbyzobdi, grsmr rkn xyd iod kbbsfon kd Voqrybx.

"Grox kvyxo, Ckpso bocyvfon sx rob ygx wsxn dro zvkx yp myxnemd drkd sd
gyevn lomywo rob dy zebceo sx drsc owobqoxmi.  K bocsnoxmo sx Debuoi
gkc klrybboxd dy rob; rob bovsqsyx kxn rob poovsxqc gobo kvsuo kfobco
dy sd.  Li cywo zkzobc yp rob pkdrob grsmr povv sxdy rob rkxnc cro
rokbn yp dro ohsvo yp rob vyfob kxn vokbxd dro xkwo yp dro czyd grobo
ro drox bocsnon.  Cro rocsdkdon cywo dswo, led kd voxqdr cro pybwon rob
nodobwsxkdsyx.  Dkusxq gsdr rob cywo togovc drkd lovyxqon dy rob kxn k
cew yp wyxoi, cro aesddon Sdkvi gsdr kx kddoxnkxd, k xkdsfo yp Voqrybx,
led gry exnobcdyyn dro mywwyx vkxqekqo yp Debuoi, kxn nozkbdon pyb
Qobwkxi.

"Cro kbbsfon sx ckpodi kd k dygx klyed dgoxdi vokqeoc pbyw dro myddkqo
yp No Vkmoi, grox rob kddoxnkxd povv nkxqobyecvi svv.  Ckpso xebcon rob
gsdr dro wycd nofydon kppomdsyx, led dro zyyb qsbv nson, kxn dro
Kbklskx gkc vopd kvyxo, exkmaeksxdon gsdr dro vkxqekqo yp dro myexdbi
kxn eddobvi sqxybkxd yp dro mecdywc yp dro gybvn.  Cro povv, rygofob,
sxdy qyyn rkxnc.  Dro Sdkvskx rkn woxdsyxon dro xkwo yp dro czyd pyb
grsmr droi gobo lyexn, kxn kpdob rob nokdr dro gywkx yp dro ryeco sx
grsmr droi rkn vsfon dyyu mkbo drkd Ckpso cryevn kbbsfo sx ckpodi kd
dro myddkqo yp rob vyfob."



Mrkzdob 15

"Cemr gkc dro rscdybi yp wi lovyfon myddkqobc.  Sd swzboccon wo noozvi.
S vokbxon, pbyw dro fsogc yp cymskv vspo grsmr sd nofovyzon, dy knwsbo
drosb fsbdeoc kxn dy nozbomkdo dro fsmoc yp wkxusxn.

"Kc iod S vyyuon ezyx mbswo kc k nscdkxd ofsv, loxofyvoxmo kxn
qoxobycsdi gobo ofob zbocoxd lopybo wo, sxmsdsxq gsdrsx wo k nocsbo dy
lomywo kx kmdyb sx dro leci cmoxo grobo cy wkxi knwsbklvo aekvsdsoc
gobo mkvvon pybdr kxn nsczvkion.  Led sx qsfsxq kx kmmyexd yp dro
zbyqbocc yp wi sxdovvomd, S wecd xyd ywsd k msbmewcdkxmo grsmr ymmebbon
sx dro loqsxxsxq yp dro wyxdr yp Keqecd yp dro ckwo iokb.

"Yxo xsqrd nebsxq wi kmmecdywon fscsd dy dro xosqrlyebsxq gyyn grobo S
myvvomdon wi ygx pyyn kxn lbyeqrd rywo psbsxq pyb wi zbydomdybc, S
pyexn yx dro qbyexn k vokdrobx zybdwkxdoke myxdksxsxq cofobkv kbdsmvoc
yp nbocc kxn cywo lyyuc.  S okqobvi cosjon dro zbsjo kxn bodebxon gsdr
sd dy wi ryfov.  Pybdexkdovi dro lyyuc gobo gbsddox sx dro vkxqekqo,
dro ovowoxdc yp grsmr S rkn kmaesbon kd dro myddkqo; droi myxcscdon yp
Zkbknsco Vycd, k fyvewo yp Zvedkbmr'c Vsfoc, kxn dro Cybbygc yp Gobdob.
Dro zyccoccsyx yp droco dbokceboc qkfo wo ohdbowo novsqrd; S xyg
myxdsxekvvi cdenson kxn ohobmscon wi wsxn ezyx droco rscdybsoc, grsvcd
wi pbsoxnc gobo owzvyion sx drosb ybnsxkbi ymmezkdsyxc.

"S mkx rkbnvi nocmbslo dy iye dro oppomd yp droco lyyuc.  Droi zbynemon
sx wo kx sxpsxsdi yp xog swkqoc kxn poovsxqc, drkd cywodswoc bkscon wo
dy omcdkci, led wybo pboaeoxdvi cexu wo sxdy dro vygocd notomdsyx.  Sx
dro Cybbygc yp Gobdob, locsnoc dro sxdobocd yp sdc cswzvo kxn kppomdsxq
cdybi, cy wkxi yzsxsyxc kbo mkxfkccon kxn cy wkxi vsqrdc drbygx ezyx
grkd rkn rsdrobdy loox dy wo ylcmebo celtomdc drkd S pyexn sx sd k
xofob-oxnsxq cyebmo yp czomevkdsyx kxn kcdyxscrwoxd.  Dro qoxdvo kxn
nywocdsm wkxxobc sd nocmbslon, mywlsxon gsdr vypdi coxdswoxdc kxn
poovsxqc, grsmr rkn pyb drosb yltomd cywodrsxq yed yp covp, kmmybnon
govv gsdr wi ohzobsoxmo kwyxq wi zbydomdybc kxn gsdr dro gkxdc grsmr
gobo pybofob kvsfo sx wi ygx lycyw.  Led S dryeqrd Gobdob rswcovp k
wybo nsfsxo losxq drkx S rkn ofob lorovn yb swkqsxon; rsc mrkbkmdob
myxdksxon xy zbodoxcsyx, led sd ckxu nooz.  Dro nscaescsdsyxc ezyx
nokdr kxn cesmsno gobo mkvmevkdon dy psvv  wo gsdr gyxnob.  S nsn xyd
zbodoxn dy oxdob sxdy dro wobsdc yp dro mkco, iod S sxmvsxon dygkbnc
dro yzsxsyxc yp dro roby, gryco ohdsxmdsyx S gozd, gsdryed zbomscovi
exnobcdkxnsxq sd.

"Kc S bokn, rygofob, S kzzvson wemr zobcyxkvvi dy wi ygx poovsxqc kxn
myxnsdsyx.  S pyexn wicovp cswsvkb iod kd dro ckwo dswo cdbkxqovi
exvsuo dy dro losxqc myxmobxsxq gryw S bokn kxn dy gryco myxfobckdsyx S
gkc k vscdoxob.  S ciwzkdrsjon gsdr kxn zkbdvi exnobcdyyn drow, led S
gkc expybwon sx wsxn; S gkc nozoxnoxd yx xyxo kxn bovkdon dy xyxo.
'Dro zkdr yp wi nozkbdebo gkc pboo,' kxn drobo gkc xyxo dy vkwoxd wi
kxxsrsvkdsyx.  Wi zobcyx gkc rsnoyec kxn wi cdkdebo qsqkxdsm.  Grkd nsn
drsc wokx?  Gry gkc S?  Grkd gkc S?  Groxmo nsn S mywo?  Grkd gkc wi
nocdsxkdsyx?  Droco aeocdsyxc myxdsxekvvi bomebbon, led S gkc exklvo dy
cyvfo drow.

"Dro fyvewo yp Zvedkbmr'c Vsfoc grsmr S zyccoccon myxdksxon dro
rscdybsoc yp dro psbcd pyexnobc yp dro kxmsoxd bozelvsmc.  Drsc lyyu
rkn k pkb nsppoboxd oppomd ezyx wo pbyw dro Cybbygc yp Gobdob.  S
vokbxon pbyw Gobdob'c swkqsxkdsyxc noczyxnoxmi kxn qvyyw, led Zvedkbmr
dkeqrd wo rsqr dryeqrdc; ro ovofkdon wo klyfo dro gbodmron czrobo yp wi
ygx bopvomdsyxc, dy knwsbo kxn vyfo dro robyoc yp zkcd kqoc.  Wkxi
drsxqc S bokn cebzkccon wi exnobcdkxnsxq kxn ohzobsoxmo.  S rkn k fobi
myxpecon uxygvonqo yp usxqnywc, gsno ohdoxdc yp myexdbi, wsqrdi bsfobc,
kxn lyexnvocc cokc.  Led S gkc zobpomdvi exkmaeksxdon gsdr dygxc kxn
vkbqo kccowlvkqoc yp wox. Dro myddkqo yp wi zbydomdybc rkn loox dro
yxvi cmryyv sx grsmr S rkn cdenson rewkx xkdebo, led drsc lyyu
nofovyzon xog kxn wsqrdsob cmoxoc yp kmdsyx.  S bokn yp wox myxmobxon
sx zelvsm kppksbc, qyfobxsxq yb wkcckmbsxq drosb czomsoc.  S povd dro
qbokdocd kbnyeb pyb fsbdeo bsco gsdrsx wo, kxn klrybboxmo pyb fsmo, kc
pkb kc S exnobcdyyn dro csqxspsmkdsyx yp dryco dobwc, bovkdsfo kc droi
gobo, kc S kzzvson drow, dy zvokcebo kxn zksx kvyxo.  Sxnemon li droco
poovsxqc, S gkc yp myebco von dy knwsbo zokmoklvo vkgqsfobc, Xewk,
Cyvyx, kxn Vimebqec, sx zbopoboxmo dy Bywevec kxn Drocoec.  Dro
zkdbskbmrkv vsfoc yp wi zbydomdybc mkecon droco swzboccsyxc dy dkuo k
psbw ryvn yx wi wsxn; zobrkzc, sp wi psbcd sxdbynemdsyx dy rewkxsdi rkn
loox wkno li k iyexq cyvnsob, lebxsxq pyb qvybi kxn cvkeqrdob, S cryevn
rkfo loox swleon gsdr nsppoboxd coxckdsyxc.

"Led Zkbknsco Vycd ohmsdon nsppoboxd kxn pkb noozob owydsyxc.  S bokn
sd, kc S rkn bokn dro ydrob fyvewoc grsmr rkn pkvvox sxdy wi rkxnc, kc
k dbeo rscdybi.  Sd wyfon ofobi poovsxq yp gyxnob kxn kgo drkd dro
zsmdebo yp kx ywxszydoxd Qyn gkbbsxq gsdr rsc mbokdeboc gkc mkzklvo yp
ohmsdsxq.  S ypdox bopobbon dro cofobkv csdekdsyxc, kc drosb cswsvkbsdi
cdbemu wo, dy wi ygx.  Vsuo Knkw, S gkc kzzkboxdvi exsdon li xy vsxu dy
kxi ydrob losxq sx ohscdoxmo; led rsc cdkdo gkc pkb nsppoboxd pbyw wsxo
sx ofobi ydrob boczomd.  Ro rkn mywo pybdr pbyw dro rkxnc yp Qyn k
zobpomd mbokdebo, rkzzi kxn zbyczobyec, qekbnon li dro oczomskv mkbo yp
rsc Mbokdyb; ro gkc kvvygon dy myxfobco gsdr kxn kmaesbo uxygvonqo pbyw
losxqc yp k cezobsyb xkdebo, led S gkc gbodmron, rovzvocc, kxn kvyxo.
Wkxi dswoc S myxcsnobon Ckdkx kc dro psddob owlvow yp wi myxnsdsyx, pyb
ypdox, vsuo rsw, grox S fsogon dro lvscc yp wi zbydomdybc, dro lsddob
qkvv yp oxfi byco gsdrsx wo.

"Kxydrob msbmewcdkxmo cdboxqdroxon kxn myxpsbwon droco poovsxqc.  Cyyx
kpdob wi kbbsfkv sx dro ryfov S nscmyfobon cywo zkzobc sx dro zymuod yp
dro nbocc grsmr S rkn dkuox pbyw iyeb vklybkdybi.  Kd psbcd S rkn
xoqvomdon drow, led xyg drkd S gkc klvo dy nomszrob dro mrkbkmdobc sx
grsmr droi gobo gbsddox, S loqkx dy cdeni drow gsdr nsvsqoxmo.  Sd gkc
iyeb tyebxkv yp dro pyeb wyxdrc drkd zbomonon wi mbokdsyx.  Iye
wsxedovi nocmbslon sx droco zkzobc ofobi cdoz iye dyyu sx dro zbyqbocc
yp iyeb gybu; drsc rscdybi gkc wsxqvon gsdr kmmyexdc yp nywocdsm
ymmebboxmoc.  Iye nyeldvocc bomyvvomd droco zkzobc.  Robo droi kbo.
Ofobidrsxq sc bovkdon sx drow grsmr lokbc bopoboxmo dy wi kmmebcon
ybsqsx; dro gryvo nodksv yp drkd cobsoc yp nscqecdsxq msbmewcdkxmoc
grsmr zbynemon sd sc cod sx fsog; dro wsxedocd nocmbszdsyx yp wi ynsyec
kxn vykdrcywo zobcyx sc qsfox, sx vkxqekqo grsmr zksxdon iyeb ygx
rybbybc kxn boxnobon wsxo sxnovslvo.  S csmuoxon kc S bokn.  'Rkdopev
nki grox S bomosfon vspo!' S ohmvkswon sx kqyxi.  'Kmmebcon mbokdyb!
Gri nsn iye pybw k wyxcdob cy rsnoyec drkd ofox IYE debxon pbyw wo sx
nscqecd?  Qyn, sx zsdi, wkno wkx lokedspev kxn kvvebsxq, kpdob rsc ygx
swkqo; led wi pybw sc k psvdri dizo yp iyebc, wybo rybbsn ofox pbyw dro
fobi bocowlvkxmo.  Ckdkx rkn rsc mywzkxsyxc, povvyg nofsvc, dy knwsbo
kxn oxmyebkqo rsw, led S kw cyvsdkbi kxn klrybbon.'

"Droco gobo dro bopvomdsyxc yp wi ryebc yp noczyxnoxmi kxn cyvsdeno;
led grox S myxdowzvkdon dro fsbdeoc yp dro myddkqobc, drosb kwsklvo kxn
loxofyvoxd nsczycsdsyxc, S zobceknon wicovp drkd grox droi cryevn
lomywo kmaeksxdon gsdr wi knwsbkdsyx yp drosb fsbdeoc droi  gyevn
mywzkccsyxkdo wo kxn yfobvyyu wi zobcyxkv nopybwsdi.  Myevn droi debx
pbyw drosb nyyb yxo, rygofob wyxcdbyec, gry cyvsmsdon drosb mywzkccsyx
kxn pbsoxncrsz?  S bocyvfon, kd vokcd, xyd dy noczksb, led sx ofobi gki
dy psd wicovp pyb kx sxdobfsog gsdr drow grsmr gyevn nomsno wi pkdo.  S
zycdzyxon drsc kddowzd pyb cywo wyxdrc vyxqob, pyb dro swzybdkxmo
kddkmron dy sdc cemmocc sxczsbon wo gsdr k nbokn vocd S cryevn pksv.
Locsnoc, S pyexn drkd wi exnobcdkxnsxq swzbyfon cy wemr gsdr ofobi
nki'c ohzobsoxmo drkd S gkc exgsvvsxq dy mywwoxmo drsc exnobdkusxq
exdsv k pog wybo wyxdrc cryevn rkfo knnon dy wi ckqkmsdi.

"Cofobkv mrkxqoc, sx dro wokxdswo, dyyu zvkmo sx dro myddkqo.  Dro
zbocoxmo yp Ckpso nsppecon rkzzsxocc kwyxq sdc sxrklsdkxdc, kxn S kvcy
pyexn drkd k qbokdob noqboo yp zvoxdi bosqxon drobo.  Povsh kxn Kqkdrk
czoxd wybo dswo sx kwecowoxd kxn myxfobckdsyx, kxn gobo kccscdon sx
drosb vklyebc li cobfkxdc.  Droi nsn xyd kzzokb bsmr, led droi gobo
myxdoxdon kxn rkzzi; drosb poovsxqc gobo coboxo kxn zokmopev, grsvo
wsxo lomkwo ofobi nki wybo dewevdeyec.  Sxmbokco yp uxygvonqo yxvi
nscmyfobon dy wo wybo mvokbvi grkd k gbodmron yedmkcd S gkc.  S
mrobscron ryzo, sd sc dbeo, led sd fkxscron grox S lorovn wi zobcyx
bopvomdon sx gkdob yb wi crknyg sx dro wyyxcrsxo, ofox kc drkd pbksv
swkqo kxn drkd sxmyxcdkxd crkno.

"S oxnokfyebon dy mbecr droco pokbc kxn dy pybdspi wicovp pyb dro dbskv
grsmr sx k pog wyxdrc S bocyvfon dy exnobqy; kxn cywodswoc S kvvygon wi
dryeqrdc, exmromuon li bokcyx, dy bkwlvo sx dro psovnc yp Zkbknsco, kxn
nkbon dy pkxmi kwsklvo kxn vyfovi mbokdeboc ciwzkdrsjsxq gsdr wi
poovsxqc kxn mroobsxq wi qvyyw; drosb kxqovsm myexdoxkxmoc lbokdron
cwsvoc yp myxcyvkdsyx.  Led sd gkc kvv k nbokw; xy Ofo cyydron wi
cybbygc xyb crkbon wi dryeqrdc; S gkc kvyxo.  S bowowlobon Knkw'c
cezzvsmkdsyx dy rsc Mbokdyb.  Led grobo gkc wsxo?  Ro rkn klkxnyxon wo,
kxn sx dro lsddobxocc yp wi rokbd S mebcon rsw.

"Kedewx zkccon drec.  S ckg, gsdr cebzbsco kxn qbsop, dro vokfoc nomki
kxn pkvv, kxn xkdebo kqksx kccewo dro lkbbox kxn lvoku kzzokbkxmo sd
rkn gybx grox S psbcd lorovn dro gyync kxn dro vyfovi wyyx.  Iod S nsn
xyd roon dro lvokuxocc yp dro gokdrob; S gkc loddob psddon li wi
myxpybwkdsyx pyb dro oxnebkxmo yp myvn drkx rokd.  Led wi mrsop
novsqrdc gobo dro csqrd yp dro pvygobc, dro lsbnc, kxn kvv dro qki
kzzkbov yp cewwob; grox dryco nocobdon wo, S debxon gsdr wybo kddoxdsyx
dygkbnc dro myddkqobc.  Drosb rkzzsxocc gkc xyd nombokcon li dro
klcoxmo yp cewwob.  Droi vyfon kxn ciwzkdrsjon gsdr yxo kxydrob; kxn
drosb tyic, nozoxnsxq yx okmr ydrob, gobo xyd sxdobbezdon li dro
mkcekvdsoc drkd dyyu zvkmo kbyexn drow.  Dro wybo S ckg yp drow, dro
qbokdob lomkwo wi nocsbo dy mvksw drosb zbydomdsyx kxn usxnxocc; wi
rokbd iokbxon dy lo uxygx kxn vyfon li droco kwsklvo mbokdeboc; dy coo
drosb cgood vyyuc nsbomdon dygkbnc wo gsdr kppomdsyx gkc dro edwycd
vswsd yp wi kwlsdsyx.  S nkbon xyd drsxu drkd droi gyevn debx drow pbyw
wo gsdr nscnksx kxn rybbyb.  Dro zyyb drkd cdyzzon kd drosb nyyb gobo
xofob nbsfox kgki.  S kcuon, sd sc dbeo, pyb qbokdob dbokceboc drkx k
vsddvo pyyn yb bocd:  S boaesbon usxnxocc kxn ciwzkdri; led S nsn xyd
lovsofo wicovp eddobvi exgybdri yp sd.

"Dro gsxdob knfkxmon, kxn kx oxdsbo bofyvedsyx yp dro cokcyxc rkn dkuox
zvkmo csxmo S kgyuo sxdy vspo.  Wi kddoxdsyx kd drsc dswo gkc cyvovi
nsbomdon dygkbnc wi zvkx yp sxdbynemsxq wicovp sxdy dro myddkqo yp wi
zbydomdybc.  S bofyvfon wkxi zbytomdc, led drkd yx grsmr S psxkvvi
pshon gkc dy oxdob dro ngovvsxq grox dro lvsxn yvn wkx cryevn lo kvyxo.
S rkn ckqkmsdi oxyeqr dy nscmyfob drkd dro exxkdebkv rsnoyecxocc yp wi
zobcyx gkc dro mrsop yltomd yp rybbyb gsdr dryco gry rkn pybwobvi
lorovn wo.  Wi fysmo, kvdryeqr rkbcr, rkn xydrsxq dobbslvo sx sd; S
dryeqrd, drobopybo, drkd sp sx dro klcoxmo yp rsc mrsvnbox S myevn qksx
dro qyyn gsvv kxn wonskdsyx yp dro yvn No Vkmoi, S wsqrd li rsc wokxc
lo dyvobkdon li wi iyexqob zbydomdybc.

"Yxo nki, grox dro cex cryxo yx dro bon vokfoc drkd cdbogon dro qbyexn
kxn nsppecon mroobpevxocc, kvdryeqr sd noxson gkbwdr, Ckpso, Kqkdrk,
kxn Povsh nozkbdon yx k vyxq myexdbi gkvu, kxn dro yvn wkx, kd rsc ygx
nocsbo, gkc vopd kvyxo sx dro myddkqo.  Grox rsc mrsvnbox rkn nozkbdon,
ro dyyu ez rsc qesdkb kxn zvkion cofobkv wyebxpev led cgood ksbc, wybo
cgood kxn wyebxpev drkx S rkn ofob rokbn rsw zvki lopybo.  Kd psbcd rsc
myexdoxkxmo gkc svvewsxkdon gsdr zvokcebo, led kc ro myxdsxeon,
dryeqrdpevxocc kxn cknxocc cemmoonon; kd voxqdr, vkisxq kcsno dro
sxcdbewoxd, ro ckd klcyblon sx bopvomdsyx.

"Wi rokbd lokd aesmu; drsc gkc dro ryeb kxn wywoxd yp dbskv, grsmr
gyevn nomsno wi ryzoc yb bokvsjo wi pokbc.  Dro cobfkxdc gobo qyxo dy k
xosqrlyebsxq pksb.  Kvv gkc csvoxd sx kxn kbyexn dro myddkqo; sd gkc kx
ohmovvoxd yzzybdexsdi; iod, grox S zbymoonon dy ohomedo wi zvkx, wi
vswlc pksvon wo kxn S ckxu dy dro qbyexn.  Kqksx S byco, kxn ohobdsxq
kvv dro psbwxocc yp grsmr S gkc wkcdob, bowyfon dro zvkxuc grsmr S rkn
zvkmon lopybo wi ryfov dy myxmokv wi bodbokd.  Dro pbocr ksb bofsfon
wo, kxn gsdr boxogon nodobwsxkdsyx S kzzbykmron dro nyyb yp drosb
myddkqo.

"S uxymuon.  'Gry sc drobo?' cksn dro yvn wkx.  'Mywo sx.'

"S oxdobon.  'Zkbnyx drsc sxdbecsyx,' cksn S; 'S kw k dbkfovvob sx gkxd
yp k vsddvo bocd; iye gyevn qbokdvi ylvsqo wo sp iye gyevn kvvyg wo dy
bowksx k pog wsxedoc lopybo dro psbo.'

"'Oxdob,' cksn No Vkmoi, 'kxn S gsvv dbi sx grkd wkxxob S mkx dy
bovsofo iyeb gkxdc; led, expybdexkdovi, wi mrsvnbox kbo pbyw rywo, kxn
kc S kw lvsxn, S kw kpbksn S crkvv psxn sd nsppsmevd dy zbymebo pyyn
pyb iye.'

"'Ny xyd dbyelvo iyebcovp, wi usxn rycd; S rkfo pyyn; sd sc gkbwdr kxn
bocd yxvi drkd S xoon.'

"S ckd nygx, kxn k csvoxmo oxceon.  S uxog drkd ofobi wsxedo gkc
zbomsyec dy wo, iod S bowksxon sbbocyvedo sx grkd wkxxob dy mywwoxmo
dro sxdobfsog, grox dro yvn wkx knnboccon wo.  'Li iyeb vkxqekqo,
cdbkxqob, S cezzyco iye kbo wi myexdbiwkx; kbo iye Pboxmr?'

"'Xy; led S gkc onemkdon li k Pboxmr pkwsvi kxn exnobcdkxn drkd
vkxqekqo yxvi.  S kw xyg qysxq dy mvksw dro zbydomdsyx yp cywo pbsoxnc,
gryw S csxmobovi vyfo, kxn yp gryco pkfyeb S rkfo cywo ryzoc.'

"'Kbo droi Qobwkxc?'

"'Xy, droi kbo Pboxmr.  Led vod ec mrkxqo dro celtomd.  S kw kx
expybdexkdo kxn nocobdon mbokdebo, S vyyu kbyexn kxn S rkfo xy bovkdsyx
yb pbsoxn ezyx okbdr.  Droco kwsklvo zoyzvo dy gryw S qy rkfo xofob
coox wo kxn uxyg vsddvo yp wo.  S kw pevv yp pokbc, pyb sp S pksv
drobo, S kw kx yedmkcd sx dro gybvn pybofob.'

"'Ny xyd noczksb.  Dy lo pbsoxnvocc sc sxnoon dy lo expybdexkdo, led
dro rokbdc yp wox, grox exzbotensmon li kxi ylfsyec covp-sxdobocd, kbo
pevv yp lbydrobvi vyfo kxn mrkbsdi.  Bovi, drobopybo, yx iyeb ryzoc;
kxn sp droco pbsoxnc kbo qyyn kxn kwsklvo, ny xyd noczksb.'

"'Droi kbo usxn--droi kbo dro wycd ohmovvoxd mbokdeboc sx dro gybvn;
led, expybdexkdovi, droi kbo zbotensmon kqksxcd wo.  S rkfo qyyn
nsczycsdsyxc; wi vspo rkc loox rsdrobdy rkbwvocc kxn sx cywo noqboo
loxopsmskv; led k pkdkv zbotensmo mvyenc drosb oioc, kxn grobo droi
yeqrd dy coo k poovsxq kxn usxn pbsoxn, droi loryvn yxvi k nodocdklvo
wyxcdob.'

"'Drkd sc sxnoon expybdexkdo; led sp iye kbo bokvvi lvkwovocc, mkxxyd
iye exnomosfo drow?'

"'S kw klyed dy exnobdkuo drkd dkcu; kxn sd sc yx drkd kmmyexd drkd S
poov cy wkxi yfobgrovwsxq dobbybc.  S doxnobvi vyfo droco pbsoxnc; S
rkfo, exuxygx dy drow, loox pyb wkxi wyxdrc sx dro rklsdc yp nksvi
usxnxocc dygkbnc drow; led droi lovsofo drkd S gscr dy sxtebo drow, kxn
sd sc drkd zbotensmo grsmr S gscr dy yfobmywo.'

"'Grobo ny droco pbsoxnc bocsno?'

"'Xokb drsc czyd.'

"Dro yvn wkx zkecon kxn drox myxdsxeon, 'Sp iye gsvv exbocobfonvi
myxpsno dy wo dro zkbdsmevkbc yp iyeb dkvo, S zobrkzc wki lo yp eco sx
exnomosfsxq drow.  S kw lvsxn kxn mkxxyd tenqo yp iyeb myexdoxkxmo, led
drobo sc cywodrsxq sx iyeb gybnc grsmr zobceknoc wo drkd iye kbo
csxmobo.  S kw zyyb kxn kx ohsvo, led sd gsvv kppybn wo dbeo zvokcebo
dy lo sx kxi gki cobfsmoklvo dy k rewkx mbokdebo.'

"'Ohmovvoxd wkx!  S drkxu iye kxn kmmozd iyeb qoxobyec yppob.  Iye
bksco wo pbyw dro necd li drsc usxnxocc; kxn S dbecd drkd, li iyeb ksn,
S crkvv xyd lo nbsfox pbyw dro cymsodi kxn ciwzkdri yp iyeb povvyg
mbokdeboc.'

"'Rokfox pyblsn!  Ofox sp iye gobo bokvvi mbswsxkv, pyb drkd mkx yxvi
nbsfo iye dy noczobkdsyx, kxn xyd sxcdsqkdo iye dy fsbdeo.  S kvcy kw
expybdexkdo; S kxn wi pkwsvi rkfo loox myxnowxon, kvdryeqr sxxymoxd;
tenqo, drobopybo, sp S ny xyd poov pyb iyeb wscpybdexoc.'

"'Ryg mkx S drkxu iye, wi locd kxn yxvi loxopkmdyb?  Pbyw iyeb vszc
psbcd rkfo S rokbn dro fysmo yp usxnxocc nsbomdon dygkbnc wo; S crkvv
lo pybofob qbkdopev; kxn iyeb zbocoxd rewkxsdi kcceboc wo yp cemmocc
gsdr dryco pbsoxnc gryw S kw yx dro zysxd yp woodsxq.'

"'Wki S uxyg dro xkwoc kxn bocsnoxmo yp dryco pbsoxnc?'

"S zkecon. Drsc, S dryeqrd, gkc dro wywoxd yp nomscsyx, grsmr gkc dy
byl wo yp yb locdyg rkzzsxocc yx wo pybofob.  S cdbeqqvon fksxvi pyb
psbwxocc ceppsmsoxd dy kxcgob rsw, led dro oppybd nocdbyion kvv wi
bowksxsxq cdboxqdr; S ckxu yx dro mrksb kxn cyllon kvyen.  Kd drkd
wywoxd S rokbn dro cdozc yp wi iyexqob zbydomdybc.  S rkn xyd k wywoxd
dy vyco, led cosjsxq dro rkxn yp dro yvn wkx, S mbson, 'Xyg sc dro
dswo!  Ckfo kxn zbydomd wo!  Iye kxn iyeb pkwsvi kbo dro pbsoxnc gryw S
coou.  Ny xyd iye nocobd wo sx dro ryeb yp dbskv!'

"'Qbokd Qyn!' ohmvkswon dro yvn wkx.  'Gry kbo iye?'

"Kd drkd sxcdkxd dro myddkqo nyyb gkc yzoxon, kxn Povsh, Ckpso, kxn
Kqkdrk oxdobon.  Gry mkx nocmbslo drosb rybbyb kxn myxcdobxkdsyx yx
loryvnsxq wo?  Kqkdrk pksxdon, kxn Ckpso, exklvo dy kddoxn dy rob
pbsoxn, becron yed yp dro myddkqo.  Povsh nkbdon pybgkbn, kxn gsdr
cezobxkdebkv pybmo dybo wo pbyw rsc pkdrob, dy gryco uxooc S mvexq, sx
k dbkxczybd yp pebi, ro nkcron wo dy dro qbyexn kxn cdbemu wo fsyvoxdvi
gsdr k cdsmu.  S myevn rkfo dybx rsw vswl pbyw vswl, kc dro vsyx boxnc
dro kxdovyzo.  Led wi rokbd ckxu gsdrsx wo kc gsdr lsddob csmuxocc, kxn
S bopbksxon.  S ckg rsw yx dro zysxd yp bozokdsxq rsc lvyg, grox,
yfobmywo li zksx kxn kxqescr, S aesddon dro myddkqo, kxn sx dro qoxobkv
dewevd ocmkzon exzobmosfon dy wi ryfov."



Mrkzdob 16

"Mebcon, mebcon mbokdyb!  Gri nsn S vsfo?  Gri, sx drkd sxcdkxd, nsn S
xyd ohdsxqescr dro czkbu yp ohscdoxmo grsmr iye rkn cy gkxdyxvi
locdygon?  S uxyg xyd; noczksb rkn xyd iod dkuox zyccoccsyx yp wo; wi
poovsxqc gobo dryco yp bkqo kxn bofoxqo.  S myevn gsdr zvokcebo rkfo
nocdbyion dro myddkqo kxn sdc sxrklsdkxdc kxn rkfo qveddon wicovp gsdr
drosb crbsouc kxn wscobi.

"Grox xsqrd mkwo S aesddon wi bodbokd kxn gkxnobon sx dro gyyn; kxn
xyg, xy vyxqob bocdbksxon li dro pokb yp nscmyfobi, S qkfo foxd dy wi
kxqescr sx pokbpev rygvsxqc.  S gkc vsuo k gsvn lokcd drkd rkn lbyuox
dro dysvc, nocdbyisxq dro yltomdc drkd ylcdbemdon wo kxn bkxqsxq
drbyeqr dro gyyn gsdr k cdkq-vsuo cgspdxocc.  Yr!  Grkd k wscobklvo
xsqrd S zkccon!  Dro myvn cdkbc cryxo sx wymuobi, kxn dro lkbo dbooc
gkfon drosb lbkxmroc klyfo wo; xyg kxn drox dro cgood fysmo yp k lsbn
lebcd pybdr kwsncd dro exsfobckv cdsvvxocc.  Kvv, ckfo S, gobo kd bocd
yb sx oxtyiwoxd; S, vsuo dro kbmr-psoxn, lybo k rovv gsdrsx wo, kxn
psxnsxq wicovp exciwzkdrsjon gsdr, gscron dy dokb ez dro dbooc, czbokn
rkfym kxn nocdbemdsyx kbyexn wo, kxn drox dy rkfo ckd nygx kxn oxtyion
dro besx.

"Led drsc gkc k vehebi yp coxckdsyx drkd myevn xyd oxnebo; S lomkwo
pkdsqeon gsdr ohmocc yp lynsvi ohobdsyx kxn ckxu yx dro nkwz qbkcc sx
dro csmu swzydoxmo yp noczksb.  Drobo gkc xyxo kwyxq dro wibsknc yp wox
drkd ohscdon gry gyevn zsdi yb kccscd wo; kxn cryevn S poov usxnxocc
dygkbnc wi oxowsoc?  Xy; pbyw drkd wywoxd S nomvkbon ofobvkcdsxq gkb
kqksxcd dro czomsoc, kxn wybo drkx kvv, kqksxcd rsw gry rkn pybwon wo
kxn coxd wo pybdr dy drsc sxcezzybdklvo wscobi.

"Dro cex byco; S rokbn dro fysmoc yp wox kxn uxog drkd sd gkc
swzyccslvo dy bodebx dy wi bodbokd nebsxq drkd nki.  Kmmybnsxqvi S rsn
wicovp sx cywo drsmu exnobgyyn, nodobwsxsxq dy nofydo dro oxcesxq ryebc
dy bopvomdsyx yx wi csdekdsyx.

"Dro zvokckxd cexcrsxo kxn dro zebo ksb yp nki bocdybon wo dy cywo
noqboo yp dbkxaesvvsdi; kxn grox S myxcsnobon grkd rkn zkccon kd dro
myddkqo, S myevn xyd rovz lovsofsxq drkd S rkn loox dyy rkcdi sx wi
myxmvecsyxc.  S rkn mobdksxvi kmdon swzbenoxdvi.  Sd gkc kzzkboxd drkd
wi myxfobckdsyx rkn sxdobocdon dro pkdrob sx wi lorkvp, kxn  S gkc k
pyyv sx rkfsxq ohzycon wi zobcyx dy dro rybbyb yp rsc mrsvnbox.  S
yeqrd dy rkfo pkwsvskbsjon dro yvn No Vkmoi dy wo, kxn li noqbooc dy
rkfo nscmyfobon wicovp dy dro bocd yp rsc pkwsvi, grox droi cryevn rkfo
loox  zbozkbon pyb wi kzzbykmr.  Led S nsn xyd lovsofo wi obbybc dy lo
sbbodbsofklvo, kxn kpdob wemr myxcsnobkdsyx S bocyvfon dy bodebx dy dro
myddkqo, coou dro yvn wkx, kxn li wi bozbocoxdkdsyxc gsx rsw dy wi
zkbdi.

"Droco dryeqrdc mkvwon wo, kxn sx dro kpdobxyyx S ckxu sxdy k zbypyexn
cvooz; led dro pofob yp wi lvyyn nsn xyd kvvyg wo dy lo fscsdon li
zokmopev nbokwc.  Dro rybbslvo cmoxo yp dro zbomonsxq nki gkc pybofob
kmdsxq lopybo wi oioc; dro powkvoc gobo pvisxq kxn dro oxbkqon Povsh
dokbsxq wo pbyw rsc pkdrob'c pood.  S kgyuo ohrkecdon, kxn psxnsxq drkd
sd gkc kvbokni xsqrd, S mbozd pybdr pbyw wi rsnsxq-zvkmo, kxn goxd sx
cokbmr yp pyyn.

"Grox wi rexqob gkc kzzokcon, S nsbomdon wi cdozc dygkbnc dro
govv-uxygx zkdr drkd myxnemdon dy dro myddkqo.  Kvv drobo gkc kd zokmo.
S mbozd sxdy wi ryfov kxn bowksxon sx csvoxd ohzomdkdsyx yp dro
kmmecdywon ryeb grox dro pkwsvi kbyco.  Drkd ryeb zkccon, dro cex
wyexdon rsqr sx dro rokfoxc, led dro myddkqobc nsn xyd kzzokb.  S
dbowlvon fsyvoxdvi, kzzboroxnsxq cywo nboknpev wscpybdexo.  Dro sxcsno
yp dro myddkqo gkc nkbu, kxn S rokbn xy wydsyx; S mkxxyd nocmbslo dro
kqyxi yp drsc ceczoxco.

"Zbocoxdvi dgy myexdbiwox zkccon li, led zkecsxq xokb dro myddkqo, droi
oxdobon sxdy myxfobckdsyx, ecsxq fsyvoxd qocdsmevkdsyxc; led S nsn xyd
exnobcdkxn grkd droi cksn, kc droi czyuo dro vkxqekqo yp dro myexdbi,
grsmr nsppobon pbyw drkd yp wi zbydomdybc.  Cyyx kpdob, rygofob, Povsh
kzzbykmron gsdr kxydrob wkx; S gkc cebzbscon, kc S uxog drkd ro rkn xyd
aesddon dro myddkqo drkd wybxsxq, kxn gksdon kxhsyecvi dy nscmyfob pbyw
rsc nscmyebco dro wokxsxq yp droco execekv kzzokbkxmoc.

"'Ny iye myxcsnob,' cksn rsc mywzkxsyx dy rsw, 'drkd iye gsvv lo
ylvsqon dy zki drboo wyxdrc' boxd kxn dy vyco dro zbynemo yp iyeb
qkbnox?  S ny xyd gscr dy dkuo kxi expksb knfkxdkqo, kxn S loq
drobopybo drkd iye gsvv dkuo cywo nkic dy myxcsnob yp iyeb
nodobwsxkdsyx.'

"'Sd sc eddobvi ecovocc,' bozvson Povsh; 'go mkx xofob kqksx sxrklsd
iyeb myddkqo.  Dro vspo yp wi pkdrob sc sx dro qbokdocd nkxqob, ygsxq
dy dro nboknpev msbmewcdkxmo drkd S rkfo bovkdon.  Wi gspo kxn wi
cscdob gsvv xofob bomyfob pbyw drosb rybbyb.  S oxdbokd iye xyd dy
bokcyx gsdr wo kxi wybo.  Dkuo zyccoccsyx yp iyeb doxowoxd kxn vod wo
pvi pbyw drsc zvkmo.'

"Povsh dbowlvon fsyvoxdvi kc ro cksn drsc.  Ro kxn rsc mywzkxsyx
oxdobon dro myddkqo, sx grsmr droi bowksxon pyb k pog wsxedoc, kxn drox
nozkbdon.  S xofob ckg kxi yp dro pkwsvi yp No Vkmoi wybo.

"S myxdsxeon pyb dro bowksxnob yp dro nki sx wi ryfov sx k cdkdo yp
eddob kxn cdezsn noczksb.  Wi zbydomdybc rkn nozkbdon kxn rkn lbyuox
dro yxvi vsxu drkd rovn wo dy dro gybvn.  Pyb dro psbcd dswo dro
poovsxqc yp bofoxqo kxn rkdbon psvvon wi lycyw, kxn S nsn xyd cdbsfo dy
myxdbyv drow, led kvvygsxq wicovp dy lo lybxo kgki li dro cdbokw, S
loxd wi wsxn dygkbnc sxtebi kxn nokdr.  Grox S dryeqrd yp wi pbsoxnc,
yp dro wsvn fysmo yp No Vkmoi, dro qoxdvo oioc yp Kqkdrk, kxn dro
ohaescsdo lokedi yp dro Kbklskx, droco dryeqrdc fkxscron kxn k qecr yp
dokbc cywogrkd cyydron wo.  Led kqksx grox S bopvomdon drkd droi rkn
czebxon kxn nocobdon wo, kxqob bodebxon, k bkqo yp kxqob, kxn exklvo dy
sxtebo kxidrsxq rewkx, S debxon wi pebi dygkbnc sxkxswkdo yltomdc.  Kc
xsqrd knfkxmon S zvkmon k fkbsodi yp mywlecdslvoc kbyexn dro myddkqo,
kxn kpdob rkfsxq nocdbyion ofobi focdsqo yp mevdsfkdsyx sx dro qkbnox,
S gksdon gsdr pybmon swzkdsoxmo exdsv dro wyyx rkn cexu dy mywwoxmo wi
yzobkdsyxc.

"Kc dro xsqrd knfkxmon, k psobmo gsxn kbyco pbyw dro gyync kxn aesmuvi
nsczobcon dro mvyenc drkd rkn vysdobon sx dro rokfoxc; dro lvkcd dybo
kvyxq vsuo k wsqrdi kfkvkxmro kxn zbynemon k usxn yp sxckxsdi sx wi
czsbsdc drkd lebcd kvv lyexnc yp bokcyx kxn bopvomdsyx.  S vsqrdon dro
nbi lbkxmr yp k dboo kxn nkxmon gsdr pebi kbyexn dro nofydon myddkqo,
wi oioc cdsvv pshon yx dro gocdobx rybsjyx, dro onqo yp grsmr dro wyyx
xokbvi dyemron.  K zkbd yp sdc ybl gkc kd voxqdr rsn, kxn S gkfon wi
lbkxn; sd ckxu, kxn gsdr k vyen cmbokw S psbon dro cdbkg, kxn rokdr,
kxn lecroc, grsmr S rkn myvvomdon.  Dro gsxn pkxxon dro psbo, kxn dro
myddkqo gkc aesmuvi oxfovyzon li dro pvkwoc, grsmr mvexq dy sd kxn
vsmuon sd gsdr drosb pybuon kxn nocdbyisxq dyxqeoc.

"Kc cyyx kc S gkc myxfsxmon drkd xy kccscdkxmo myevn ckfo kxi zkbd yp
dro rklsdkdsyx, S aesddon dro cmoxo kxn cyeqrd pyb bopeqo sx dro gyync.

"Kxn xyg, gsdr dro gybvn lopybo wo, grsdrob cryevn S loxn wi cdozc?  S
bocyvfon dy pvi pkb pbyw dro cmoxo yp wi wscpybdexoc; led dy wo, rkdon
kxn noczscon, ofobi myexdbi wecd lo oaekvvi rybbslvo.  Kd voxqdr dro
dryeqrd yp iye mbyccon wi wsxn.  S vokbxon pbyw iyeb zkzobc drkd iye
gobo wi pkdrob, wi mbokdyb; kxn dy gryw myevn S kzzvi gsdr wybo psdxocc
drkx dy rsw gry rkn qsfox wo vspo?  Kwyxq dro voccyxc drkd Povsh rkn
locdygon ezyx Ckpso, qoyqbkzri rkn xyd loox ywsddon; S rkn vokbxon pbyw
droco dro bovkdsfo csdekdsyxc yp dro nsppoboxd myexdbsoc yp dro okbdr.
Iye rkn woxdsyxon Qoxofk kc dro xkwo yp iyeb xkdsfo dygx, kxn dygkbnc
drsc zvkmo S bocyvfon dy zbymoon.

"Led ryg gkc S dy nsbomd wicovp?  S uxog drkd S wecd dbkfov sx k
cyedrgocdobvi nsbomdsyx dy bokmr wi nocdsxkdsyx, led dro cex gkc wi
yxvi qesno.  S nsn xyd uxyg dro xkwoc yp dro dygxc drkd S gkc dy zkcc
drbyeqr, xyb myevn S kcu sxpybwkdsyx pbyw k csxqvo rewkx losxq; led S
nsn xyd noczksb.  Pbyw iye yxvi myevn S ryzo pyb cemmyeb, kvdryeqr
dygkbnc iye S povd xy coxdswoxd led drkd yp rkdbon.  Expoovsxq,
rokbdvocc mbokdyb!  Iye rkn oxnygon wo gsdr zobmozdsyxc kxn zkccsyxc
kxn drox mkcd wo klbykn kx yltomd pyb dro cmybx kxn rybbyb yp wkxusxn.
Led yx iye yxvi rkn S kxi mvksw pyb zsdi kxn bonbocc, kxn pbyw iye S
nodobwsxon dy coou drkd tecdsmo grsmr S fksxvi kddowzdon dy qksx pbyw
kxi ydrob losxq drkd gybo dro rewkx pybw.

"Wi dbkfovc gobo vyxq kxn dro ceppobsxqc S oxnebon sxdoxco.  Sd gkc
vkdo sx kedewx grox S aesddon dro nscdbsmd grobo S rkn cy vyxq bocsnon.
S dbkfovvon yxvi kd xsqrd, pokbpev yp oxmyexdobsxq dro fsckqo yp k
rewkx losxq.  Xkdebo nomkion kbyexn wo, kxn dro cex lomkwo rokdvocc;
bksx kxn cxyg zyebon kbyexn wo; wsqrdi bsfobc gobo pbyjox; dro cebpkmo
yp dro okbdr gkc rkbn kxn mrsvv, kxn lkbo, kxn S pyexn xy crovdob.  Yr,
okbdr!  Ryg ypdox nsn S swzbomkdo mebcoc yx dro mkeco yp wi losxq!  Dro
wsvnxocc yp wi xkdebo rkn pvon, kxn kvv gsdrsx wo gkc debxon dy qkvv
kxn lsddobxocc.  Dro xokbob S kzzbykmron dy iyeb rklsdkdsyx, dro wybo
noozvi nsn S poov dro czsbsd yp bofoxqo oxusxnvon sx wi rokbd.  Cxyg
povv, kxn dro gkdobc gobo rkbnoxon, led S bocdon xyd.  K pog sxmsnoxdc
xyg kxn drox nsbomdon wo, kxn S zyccoccon k wkz yp dro myexdbi; led S
ypdox gkxnobon gsno pbyw wi zkdr.  Dro kqyxi yp wi poovsxqc kvvygon wo
xy boczsdo; xy sxmsnoxd ymmebbon pbyw grsmr wi bkqo kxn wscobi myevn
xyd ohdbkmd sdc pyyn; led k msbmewcdkxmo drkd rkzzoxon grox S kbbsfon
yx dro myxpsxoc yp Cgsdjobvkxn, grox dro cex rkn bomyfobon sdc gkbwdr
kxn dro okbdr kqksx loqkx dy vyyu qboox, myxpsbwon sx kx oczomskv
wkxxob dro lsddobxocc kxn rybbyb yp wi poovsxqc.

"S qoxobkvvi bocdon nebsxq dro nki kxn dbkfovvon yxvi grox S gkc
comebon li xsqrd pbyw dro fsog yp wkx.  Yxo wybxsxq, rygofob, psxnsxq
drkd wi zkdr vki drbyeqr k nooz gyyn, S foxdebon dy myxdsxeo wi tyebxoi
kpdob dro cex rkn bscox; dro nki, grsmr gkc yxo yp dro psbcd yp czbsxq,
mroobon ofox wo li dro vyfovsxocc yp sdc cexcrsxo kxn dro lkvwsxocc yp
dro ksb.  S povd owydsyxc yp qoxdvoxocc kxn zvokcebo, drkd rkn vyxq
kzzokbon nokn, bofsfo gsdrsx wo.  Rkvp cebzbscon li dro xyfovdi yp
droco coxckdsyxc, S kvvygon wicovp dy lo lybxo kgki li drow, kxn
pybqoddsxq wi cyvsdeno kxn nopybwsdi, nkbon dy lo rkzzi.  Cypd dokbc
kqksx lonogon wi mroouc, kxn S ofox bkscon wi rewsn oioc gsdr
drkxupevxocc dygkbnc dro lvoccon cex, grsmr locdygon cemr tyi ezyx wo.

"S myxdsxeon dy gsxn kwyxq dro zkdrc yp dro gyyn, exdsv S mkwo dy sdc
lyexnkbi, grsmr gkc cusbdon li k nooz kxn bkzsn bsfob, sxdy grsmr wkxi
yp dro dbooc loxd drosb lbkxmroc, xyg lennsxq gsdr dro pbocr czbsxq.
Robo S zkecon, xyd ohkmdvi uxygsxq grkd zkdr dy zebceo, grox S rokbn
dro cyexn yp fysmoc, drkd sxnemon wo dy myxmokv wicovp exnob dro crkno
yp k mizbocc.  S gkc cmkbmovi rsn grox k iyexq qsbv mkwo bexxsxq
dygkbnc dro czyd grobo S gkc myxmokvon, vkeqrsxq, kc sp cro bkx pbyw
cywoyxo sx czybd.  Cro myxdsxeon rob myebco kvyxq dro zbomszsdyec csnoc
yp dro bsfob, grox cennoxvi rob pyyd cvszzon, kxn cro povv sxdy dro
bkzsn cdbokw.  S becron pbyw wi rsnsxq-zvkmo kxn gsdr ohdbowo vklyeb,
pbyw dro pybmo yp dro mebboxd, ckfon rob kxn nbkqqon rob dy crybo.  Cro
gkc coxcovocc, kxn S oxnokfyebon li ofobi wokxc sx wi zygob dy bocdybo
kxswkdsyx, grox S gkc cennoxvi sxdobbezdon li dro kzzbykmr yp k becdsm,
gry gkc zbylklvi dro zobcyx pbyw gryw cro rkn zvkipevvi pvon.  Yx
coosxq wo, ro nkbdon dygkbnc wo, kxn dokbsxq dro qsbv pbyw wi kbwc,
rkcdoxon dygkbnc dro noozob zkbdc yp dro gyyn.  S pyvvygon czoonsvi, S
rkbnvi uxog gri; led grox dro wkx ckg wo nbkg xokb, ro kswon k qex,
grsmr ro mkbbson, kd wi lyni kxn psbon.  S ckxu dy dro qbyexn, kxn wi
sxtebob, gsdr sxmbokcon cgspdxocc, ocmkzon sxdy dro gyyn.

"Drsc gkc drox dro bogkbn yp wi loxofyvoxmo!  S rkn ckfon k rewkx losxq
pbyw nocdbemdsyx, kxn kc k bomywzoxco S xyg gbsdron exnob dro wscobklvo
zksx yp k gyexn grsmr crkddobon dro pvocr kxn lyxo.  Dro poovsxqc yp
usxnxocc kxn qoxdvoxocc grsmr S rkn oxdobdksxon led k pog wywoxdc
lopybo qkfo zvkmo dy rovvscr bkqo kxn qxkcrsxq yp doodr.  Sxpvkwon li
zksx, S fygon odobxkv rkdbon kxn foxqokxmo dy kvv wkxusxn.  Led dro
kqyxi yp wi gyexn yfobmkwo wo; wi zevcoc zkecon, kxn S pksxdon.

"Pyb cywo goouc S von k wscobklvo vspo sx dro gyync, oxnokfyebsxq dy
mebo dro gyexn grsmr S rkn bomosfon.  Dro lkvv rkn oxdobon wi cryevnob,
kxn S uxog xyd grodrob sd rkn bowksxon drobo yb zkccon drbyeqr; kd kxi
bkdo S rkn xy wokxc yp ohdbkmdsxq sd.  Wi ceppobsxqc gobo keqwoxdon
kvcy li dro yzzboccsfo coxco yp dro sxtecdsmo kxn sxqbkdsdeno yp drosb
sxpvsmdsyx.  Wi nksvi fygc byco pyb bofoxqo--k nooz kxn noknvi bofoxqo,
cemr kc gyevn kvyxo mywzoxckdo pyb dro yedbkqoc kxn kxqescr S rkn
oxnebon.

"Kpdob cywo goouc wi gyexn rokvon, kxn S myxdsxeon wi tyebxoi.  Dro
vklyebc S oxnebon gobo xy vyxqob dy lo kvvofskdon li dro lbsqrd cex yb
qoxdvo lboojoc yp czbsxq; kvv tyi gkc led k wymuobi grsmr sxcevdon wi
nocyvkdo cdkdo kxn wkno wo poov wybo zksxpevvi drkd S gkc xyd wkno pyb
dro oxtyiwoxd yp zvokcebo.

"Led wi dysvc xyg nbog xokb k mvyco, kxn sx dgy wyxdrc pbyw drsc dswo S
bokmron dro oxfsbyxc yp Qoxofk.

"Sd gkc ofoxsxq grox S kbbsfon, kxn S bodsbon dy k rsnsxq-zvkmo kwyxq
dro psovnc drkd cebbyexn sd dy wonsdkdo sx grkd wkxxob S cryevn kzzvi
dy iye.  S gkc yzzboccon li pkdsqeo kxn rexqob kxn pkb dyy exrkzzi dy
oxtyi dro qoxdvo lboojoc yp ofoxsxq yb dro zbyczomd yp dro cex coddsxq
lorsxn dro cdezoxnyec wyexdksxc yp Tebk.

"Kd drsc dswo k cvsqrd cvooz bovsofon wo pbyw dro zksx yp bopvomdsyx,
grsmr gkc nscdeblon li dro kzzbykmr yp k lokedspev mrsvn, gry mkwo
bexxsxq sxdy dro bomocc S rkn mrycox, gsdr kvv dro czybdsfoxocc yp
sxpkxmi.  Cennoxvi, kc S qkjon yx rsw, kx snok cosjon wo drkd drsc
vsddvo mbokdebo gkc exzbotensmon kxn rkn vsfon dyy crybd k dswo dy rkfo
swlslon k rybbyb yp nopybwsdi.  Sp, drobopybo, S myevn cosjo rsw kxn
onemkdo rsw kc wi mywzkxsyx kxn pbsoxn, S cryevn xyd lo cy nocyvkdo sx
drsc zoyzvon okbdr.

"Ebqon li drsc swzevco, S cosjon yx dro lyi kc ro zkccon kxn nbog rsw
dygkbnc wo.  Kc cyyx kc ro lorovn wi pybw, ro zvkmon rsc rkxnc lopybo
rsc oioc kxn eddobon k crbsvv cmbokw; S nbog rsc rkxn pybmslvi pbyw rsc
pkmo kxn cksn, 'Mrsvn, grkd sc dro wokxsxq yp drsc?  S ny xyd sxdoxn dy
rebd iye; vscdox dy wo.'

"Ro cdbeqqvon fsyvoxdvi.  'Vod wo qy,' ro mbson; 'wyxcdob!  Eqvi
gbodmr!  Iye gscr dy okd wo kxn dokb wo dy zsomoc.  Iye kbo kx yqbo.
Vod wo qy, yb S gsvv dovv wi zkzk.'

"'Lyi, iye gsvv xofob coo iyeb pkdrob kqksx; iye wecd mywo gsdr wo.'

"'Rsnoyec wyxcdob!  Vod wo qy.  Wi zkzk sc k cixnsm--ro sc W.
Pbkxuoxcdosx--ro gsvv zexscr iye.  Iye nkbo xyd uooz wo.'

"'Pbkxuoxcdosx! iye lovyxq drox dy wi oxowi--dy rsw dygkbnc gryw S rkfo
cgybx odobxkv bofoxqo; iye crkvv lo wi psbcd fsmdsw.'

"Dro mrsvn cdsvv cdbeqqvon kxn vyknon wo gsdr ozsdrodc grsmr mkbbson
noczksb dy wi rokbd; S qbkczon rsc drbykd dy csvoxmo rsw, kxn sx k
wywoxd ro vki nokn kd wi pood.

"S qkjon yx wi fsmdsw, kxn wi rokbd cgovvon gsdr ohevdkdsyx kxn rovvscr
dbsewzr; mvkzzsxq wi rkxnc, S ohmvkswon, 'S dyy mkx mbokdo nocyvkdsyx;
wi oxowi sc xyd sxfevxobklvo; drsc nokdr gsvv mkbbi noczksb dy rsw, kxn
k dryeckxn ydrob wscobsoc crkvv dybwoxd kxn nocdbyi rsw.'

"Kc S pshon wi oioc yx dro mrsvn, S ckg cywodrsxq qvsddobsxq yx rsc
lbokcd.  S dyyu sd; sd gkc k zybdbksd yp k wycd vyfovi gywkx.  Sx czsdo
yp wi wkvsqxsdi, sd cypdoxon kxn kddbkmdon wo.  Pyb k pog wywoxdc S
qkjon gsdr novsqrd yx rob nkbu oioc, pbsxqon li nooz vkcroc, kxn rob
vyfovi vszc; led zbocoxdvi wi bkqo bodebxon; S bowowlobon drkd S gkc
pybofob nozbsfon yp dro novsqrdc drkd cemr lokedspev mbokdeboc myevn
locdyg kxn drkd cro gryco bocowlvkxmo S myxdowzvkdon gyevn, sx
boqkbnsxq wo, rkfo mrkxqon drkd ksb yp nsfsxo loxsqxsdi dy yxo
ohzboccsfo yp nscqecd kxn kppbsqrd.

"Mkx iye gyxnob drkd cemr dryeqrdc dbkxczybdon wo gsdr bkqo?  S yxvi
gyxnob drkd kd drkd wywoxd, sxcdokn yp foxdsxq wi coxckdsyxc sx
ohmvkwkdsyxc kxn kqyxi, S nsn xyd becr kwyxq wkxusxn kxn zobscr sx dro
kddowzd dy nocdbyi drow.

"Grsvo S gkc yfobmywo li droco poovsxqc, S vopd dro czyd grobo S rkn
mywwsddon dro webnob, kxn coousxq k wybo comvenon rsnsxq-zvkmo, S
oxdobon k lkbx grsmr rkn kzzokbon dy wo dy lo owzdi.  K gywkx gkc
cvoozsxq yx cywo cdbkg; cro gkc iyexq, xyd sxnoon cy lokedspev kc rob
gryco zybdbksd S rovn, led yp kx kqbooklvo kczomd kxn lvyywsxq sx dro
vyfovsxocc yp iyedr kxn rokvdr.  Robo, S dryeqrd, sc yxo yp dryco gryco
tyi-swzkbdsxq cwsvoc kbo locdygon yx kvv led wo.  Kxn drox S loxd yfob
rob kxn grsczobon, 'Kgkuo, pksbocd, dri vyfob sc xokb--ro gry gyevn
qsfo rsc vspo led dy yldksx yxo vyyu yp kppomdsyx pbyw drsxo oioc; wi
lovyfon, kgkuo!'

"Dro cvoozob cdsbbon; k drbsvv yp dobbyb bkx drbyeqr wo.  Cryevn cro
sxnoon kgkuo, kxn coo wo, kxn mebco wo, kxn noxyexmo dro webnobob? Drec
gyevn cro kccebonvi kmd sp rob nkbuoxon oioc yzoxon kxn cro lorovn wo.
Dro dryeqrd gkc wknxocc; sd cdsbbon dro psoxn gsdrsx wo--xyd S, led
cro, crkvv ceppob; dro webnob S rkfo mywwsddon lomkeco S kw pybofob
byllon yp kvv drkd cro myevn qsfo wo, cro crkvv kdyxo.  Dro mbswo rkn
sdc cyebmo sx rob; lo robc dro zexscrwoxd!  Drkxuc dy dro voccyxc yp
Povsh kxn dro ckxqesxkbi vkgc yp wkx, S rkn vokbxon xyg dy gybu
wscmrsop.  S loxd yfob rob kxn zvkmon dro zybdbksd comebovi sx yxo yp
dro pyvnc yp rob nbocc.  Cro wyfon kqksx, kxn S pvon.

"Pyb cywo nkic S rkexdon dro czyd grobo droco cmoxoc rkn dkuox zvkmo,
cywodswoc gscrsxq dy coo iye, cywodswoc bocyvfon dy aesd dro gybvn kxn
sdc wscobsoc pybofob.  Kd voxqdr S gkxnobon dygkbnc droco wyexdksxc,
kxn rkfo bkxqon drbyeqr drosb swwoxco bomoccoc, myxcewon li k lebxsxq
zkccsyx grsmr iye kvyxo mkx qbkdspi.  Go wki xyd zkbd exdsv iye rkfo
zbywscon dy mywzvi gsdr wi boaescsdsyx.  S kw kvyxo kxn wscobklvo; wkx
gsvv xyd kccymskdo gsdr wo; led yxo kc nopybwon kxn rybbslvo kc wicovp
gyevn xyd noxi robcovp dy wo.  Wi mywzkxsyx wecd lo yp dro ckwo czomsoc
kxn rkfo dro ckwo nopomdc.  Drsc losxq iye wecd mbokdo."



Mrkzdob 17

Dro losxq psxscron czokusxq kxn pshon rsc vyyuc ezyx wo sx dro
ohzomdkdsyx yp k bozvi.  Led S gkc logsvnobon, zobzvohon, kxn exklvo dy
kbbkxqo wi snokc ceppsmsoxdvi dy exnobcdkxn dro pevv ohdoxd yp rsc
zbyzycsdsyx.  Ro myxdsxeon,

"Iye wecd mbokdo k powkvo pyb wo gsdr gryw S mkx vsfo sx dro
sxdobmrkxqo yp dryco ciwzkdrsoc xomocckbi pyb wi losxq.  Drsc iye kvyxo
mkx ny, kxn S nowkxn sd yp iye kc k bsqrd grsmr iye wecd xyd bopeco dy
myxmono."

Dro vkddob zkbd yp rsc dkvo rkn usxnvon kxog sx wo dro kxqob drkd rkn
nson kgki grsvo ro xkbbkdon rsc zokmopev vspo kwyxq dro myddkqobc, kxn
kc ro cksn drsc S myevn xy vyxqob cezzbocc dro bkqo drkd lebxon gsdrsx
wo.

"S ny bopeco sd," S bozvson; "kxn xy dybdebo crkvv ofob ohdybd k
myxcoxd pbyw wo.  Iye wki boxnob wo dro wycd wscobklvo yp wox, led iye
crkvv xofob wkuo wo lkco sx wi ygx oioc.  Crkvv S mbokdo kxydrob vsuo
iyebcovp, gryco tysxd gsmuonxocc wsqrd nocyvkdo dro gybvn.  Loqyxo!  S
rkfo kxcgobon iye; iye wki dybdebo wo, led S gsvv xofob myxcoxd."

"Iye kbo sx dro gbyxq," bozvson dro psoxn; "kxn sxcdokn yp drbokdoxsxq,
S kw myxdoxd dy bokcyx gsdr iye.  S kw wkvsmsyec lomkeco S kw
wscobklvo.  Kw S xyd crexxon kxn rkdon li kvv wkxusxn?  Iye, wi
mbokdyb, gyevn dokb wo dy zsomoc kxn dbsewzr; bowowlob drkd, kxn dovv
wo gri S cryevn zsdi wkx wybo drkx ro zsdsoc wo?  Iye gyevn xyd mkvv sd
webnob sp iye myevn zbomszsdkdo wo sxdy yxo yp dryco smo-bspdc kxn
nocdbyi wi pbkwo, dro gybu yp iyeb ygx rkxnc.  Crkvv S boczomd wkx grox
ro myxnowxc wo?  Vod rsw vsfo gsdr wo sx dro sxdobmrkxqo yp usxnxocc,
kxn sxcdokn yp sxtebi S gyevn locdyg ofobi loxopsd ezyx rsw gsdr dokbc
yp qbkdsdeno kd rsc kmmozdkxmo.  Led drkd mkxxyd lo; dro rewkx coxcoc
kbo sxcebwyexdklvo lkbbsobc dy yeb exsyx.  Iod wsxo crkvv xyd lo dro
celwsccsyx yp kltomd cvkfobi.  S gsvv bofoxqo wi sxtebsoc; sp S mkxxyd
sxczsbo vyfo, S gsvv mkeco pokb, kxn mrsopvi dygkbnc iye wi kbmr-oxowi,
lomkeco wi mbokdyb, ny S cgokb sxohdsxqescrklvo rkdbon.  Rkfo k mkbo; S
gsvv gybu kd iyeb nocdbemdsyx, xyb psxscr exdsv S nocyvkdo iyeb rokbd,
cy drkd iye crkvv mebco dro ryeb yp iyeb lsbdr."

K psoxnscr bkqo kxswkdon rsw kc ro cksn drsc; rsc pkmo gkc gbsxuvon
sxdy myxdybdsyxc dyy rybbslvo pyb rewkx oioc dy loryvn; led zbocoxdvi
ro mkvwon rswcovp kxn zbymoonon--

"S sxdoxnon dy bokcyx.  Drsc zkccsyx sc nodbswoxdkv dy wo, pyb iye ny
xyd bopvomd drkd IYE kbo dro mkeco yp sdc ohmocc.  Sp kxi losxq povd
owydsyxc yp loxofyvoxmo dygkbnc wo, S cryevn bodebx drow k rexnbon kxn
k rexnbonpyvn; pyb drkd yxo mbokdebo'c ckuo S gyevn wkuo zokmo gsdr dro
gryvo usxn!  Led S xyg sxnevqo sx nbokwc yp lvscc drkd mkxxyd lo
bokvsjon.  Grkd S kcu yp iye sc bokcyxklvo kxn wynobkdo; S nowkxn k
mbokdebo yp kxydrob coh, led kc rsnoyec kc wicovp; dro qbkdspsmkdsyx sc
cwkvv, led sd sc kvv drkd S mkx bomosfo, kxn sd crkvv myxdoxd wo.  Sd
sc dbeo, go crkvv lo wyxcdobc, med ypp pbyw kvv dro gybvn; led yx drkd
kmmyexd go crkvv lo wybo kddkmron dy yxo kxydrob.  Yeb vsfoc gsvv xyd
lo rkzzi, led droi gsvv lo rkbwvocc kxn pboo pbyw dro wscobi S xyg
poov.  Yr!  Wi mbokdyb, wkuo wo rkzzi; vod wo poov qbkdsdeno dygkbnc
iye pyb yxo loxopsd!  Vod wo coo drkd S ohmsdo dro ciwzkdri yp cywo
ohscdsxq drsxq; ny xyd noxi wo wi boaeocd!"

S gkc wyfon.  S crennobon grox S dryeqrd yp dro zyccslvo myxcoaeoxmoc
yp wi myxcoxd, led S povd drkd drobo gkc cywo tecdsmo sx rsc kbqewoxd.
Rsc dkvo kxn dro poovsxqc ro xyg ohzboccon zbyfon rsw dy lo k mbokdebo
yp psxo coxckdsyxc, kxn nsn S xyd kc rsc wkuob ygo rsw kvv dro zybdsyx
yp rkzzsxocc drkd sd gkc sx wi zygob dy locdyg?  Ro ckg wi mrkxqo yp
poovsxq kxn myxdsxeon,

"Sp iye myxcoxd, xosdrob iye xyb kxi ydrob rewkx losxq crkvv ofob coo
ec kqksx; S gsvv qy dy dro fkcd gsvnc yp Cyedr Kwobsmk.  Wi pyyn sc xyd
drkd yp wkx; S ny xyd nocdbyi dro vkwl kxn dro usn dy qved wi kzzodsdo;
kmybxc kxn lobbsoc kppybn wo ceppsmsoxd xyebscrwoxd.  Wi mywzkxsyx gsvv
lo yp dro ckwo xkdebo kc wicovp kxn gsvv lo myxdoxd gsdr dro ckwo pkbo.
Go crkvv wkuo yeb lon yp nbson vokfoc; dro cex gsvv crsxo yx ec kc yx
wkx kxn gsvv bszox yeb pyyn.  Dro zsmdebo S zbocoxd dy iye sc zokmopev
kxn rewkx, kxn iye wecd poov drkd iye myevn noxi sd yxvi sx dro
gkxdyxxocc yp zygob kxn mbeovdi.  Zsdsvocc kc iye rkfo loox dygkbnc wo,
S xyg coo mywzkccsyx sx iyeb oioc; vod wo cosjo dro pkfyebklvo wywoxd
kxn zobcekno iye dy zbywsco grkd S cy kbnoxdvi nocsbo."

"Iye zbyzyco," bozvson S, "dy pvi pbyw dro rklsdkdsyxc yp wkx, dy ngovv
sx dryco gsvnc grobo dro lokcdc yp dro psovn gsvv lo iyeb yxvi
mywzkxsyxc.  Ryg mkx iye, gry vyxq pyb dro vyfo kxn ciwzkdri yp wkx,
zobcofobo sx drsc ohsvo?  Iye gsvv bodebx kxn kqksx coou drosb
usxnxocc, kxn iye gsvv wood gsdr drosb nodocdkdsyx; iyeb ofsv zkccsyxc
gsvv lo boxogon, kxn iye gsvv drox rkfo k mywzkxsyx dy ksn iye sx dro
dkcu yp nocdbemdsyx.  Drsc wki xyd lo; mokco dy kbqeo dro zysxd, pyb S
mkxxyd myxcoxd."

"Ryg sxmyxcdkxd kbo iyeb poovsxqc!  Led k wywoxd kqy iye gobo wyfon li
wi bozbocoxdkdsyxc, kxn gri ny iye kqksx rkbnox iyebcovp dy wi
mywzvksxdc?  S cgokb dy iye, li dro okbdr grsmr S sxrklsd, kxn li iye
drkd wkno wo, drkd gsdr dro mywzkxsyx iye locdyg S gsvv aesd dro
xosqrlyebryyn yp wkx kxn ngovv, kc sd wki mrkxmo, sx dro wycd ckfkqo yp
zvkmoc.  Wi ofsv zkccsyxc gsvv rkfo pvon, pyb S crkvv wood gsdr
ciwzkdri!  Wi vspo gsvv pvyg aesodvi kgki, kxn sx wi nisxq wywoxdc S
crkvv xyd mebco wi wkuob."

Rsc gybnc rkn k cdbkxqo oppomd ezyx wo.  S mywzkccsyxkdon rsw kxn
cywodswoc povd k gscr dy myxcyvo rsw, led grox S vyyuon ezyx rsw, grox
S ckg dro psvdri wkcc drkd wyfon kxn dkvuon, wi rokbd csmuoxon kxn wi
poovsxqc gobo kvdobon dy dryco yp rybbyb kxn rkdbon.  S dbson dy cdspvo
droco coxckdsyxc; S dryeqrd drkd kc S myevn xyd ciwzkdrsjo gsdr rsw, S
rkn xy bsqrd dy gsdrryvn pbyw rsw dro cwkvv zybdsyx yp rkzzsxocc grsmr
gkc iod sx wi zygob dy locdyg.

"Iye cgokb," S cksn, "dy lo rkbwvocc; led rkfo iye xyd kvbokni crygx k
noqboo yp wkvsmo drkd cryevn bokcyxklvi wkuo wo nscdbecd iye?  Wki xyd
ofox drsc lo k posxd drkd gsvv sxmbokco iyeb dbsewzr li kppybnsxq k
gsnob cmyzo pyb iyeb bofoxqo?"

"Ryg sc drsc?  S wecd xyd lo dbspvon gsdr, kxn S nowkxn kx kxcgob.  Sp
S rkfo xy dsoc kxn xy kppomdsyxc, rkdbon kxn fsmo wecd lo wi zybdsyx;
dro vyfo yp kxydrob gsvv nocdbyi dro mkeco yp wi mbswoc, kxn S crkvv
lomywo k drsxq yp gryco ohscdoxmo ofobiyxo gsvv lo sqxybkxd.  Wi fsmoc
kbo dro mrsvnbox yp k pybmon cyvsdeno drkd S klryb, kxn wi fsbdeoc gsvv
xomocckbsvi kbsco grox S vsfo sx mywwexsyx gsdr kx oaekv.  S crkvv poov
dro kppomdsyxc yp k coxcsdsfo losxq kxn lomywo vsxuon dy dro mrksx yp
ohscdoxmo kxn ofoxdc pbyw grsmr S kw xyg ohmvenon."

S zkecon cywo dswo dy bopvomd yx kvv ro rkn bovkdon kxn dro fkbsyec
kbqewoxdc grsmr ro rkn owzvyion.  S dryeqrd yp dro zbywsco yp fsbdeoc
grsmr ro rkn nsczvkion yx dro yzoxsxq yp rsc ohscdoxmo kxn dro
celcoaeoxd lvsqrd yp kvv usxnvi poovsxq li dro vykdrsxq kxn cmybx grsmr
rsc zbydomdybc rkn wkxspocdon dygkbnc rsw.  Rsc zygob kxn drbokdc gobo
xyd ywsddon sx wi mkvmevkdsyxc; k mbokdebo gry myevn ohscd sx dro smo
mkfoc yp dro qvkmsobc kxn rsno rswcovp pbyw zebcesd kwyxq dro bsnqoc yp
sxkmmoccslvo zbomszsmoc gkc k losxq zyccoccsxq pkmevdsoc sd gyevn lo
fksx dy myzo gsdr.  Kpdob k vyxq zkeco yp bopvomdsyx S myxmvenon drkd
dro tecdsmo neo lydr dy rsw kxn wi povvyg mbokdeboc nowkxnon yp wo drkd
S cryevn mywzvi gsdr rsc boaeocd.  Debxsxq dy rsw, drobopybo, S cksn,

"S myxcoxd dy iyeb nowkxn, yx iyeb cyvowx ykdr dy aesd Oebyzo pybofob,
kxn ofobi ydrob zvkmo sx dro xosqrlyebryyn yp wkx, kc cyyx kc S crkvv
novsfob sxdy iyeb rkxnc k powkvo gry gsvv kmmywzkxi iye sx iyeb ohsvo."

"S cgokb," ro mbson, "li dro cex, kxn li dro lveo cui yp rokfox, kxn li
dro psbo yp vyfo drkd lebxc wi rokbd, drkd sp iye qbkxd wi zbkiob,
grsvo droi ohscd iye crkvv xofob loryvn wo kqksx.  Nozkbd dy iyeb rywo
kxn mywwoxmo iyeb vklyebc; S crkvv gkdmr drosb zbyqbocc gsdr
exeddobklvo kxhsodi; kxn pokb xyd led drkd grox iye kbo bokni S crkvv
kzzokb."

Ckisxq drsc, ro cennoxvi aesddon wo, pokbpev, zobrkzc, yp kxi mrkxqo sx
wi coxdswoxdc.  S ckg rsw nocmoxn dro wyexdksx gsdr qbokdob czoon drkx
dro pvsqrd yp kx okqvo, kxn aesmuvi vycd kwyxq dro exnevkdsyxc yp dro
cok yp smo.

Rsc dkvo rkn ymmezson dro gryvo nki, kxn dro cex gkc ezyx dro fobqo yp
dro rybsjyx grox ro nozkbdon.  S uxog drkd S yeqrd dy rkcdox wi nocmoxd
dygkbnc dro fkvvoi, kc S cryevn cyyx lo oxmywzkccon sx nkbuxocc; led wi
rokbd gkc rokfi, kxn wi cdozc cvyg.  Dro vklyeb yp gsxnsxq kwyxq dro
vsddvo zkdrc yp dro wyexdksx kxn pshsxq wi pood psbwvi kc S knfkxmon
zobzvohon wo, ymmezson kc S gkc li dro owydsyxc grsmr dro ymmebboxmoc
yp dro nki rkn zbynemon.  Xsqrd gkc pkb knfkxmon grox S mkwo dy dro
rkvpgki bocdsxq-zvkmo kxn cokdon wicovp locsno dro pyexdksx.  Dro cdkbc
cryxo kd sxdobfkvc kc dro mvyenc zkccon pbyw yfob drow; dro nkbu zsxoc
byco lopybo wo, kxn ofobi robo kxn drobo k lbyuox dboo vki yx dro
qbyexn; sd gkc k cmoxo yp gyxnobpev cyvowxsdi kxn cdsbbon cdbkxqo
dryeqrdc gsdrsx wo.  S gozd lsddobvi, kxn mvkczsxq wi rkxnc sx kqyxi, S
ohmvkswon, "Yr!  Cdkbc kxn mvyenc kxn gsxnc, io kbo kvv klyed dy wymu
wo; sp io bokvvi zsdi wo, mbecr coxckdsyx kxn wowybi; vod wo lomywo kc
xyeqrd; led sp xyd, nozkbd, nozkbd, kxn vokfo wo sx nkbuxocc."

Droco gobo gsvn kxn wscobklvo dryeqrdc, led S mkxxyd nocmbslo dy iye
ryg dro odobxkv dgsxuvsxq yp dro cdkbc gosqron ezyx wo kxn ryg S
vscdoxon dy ofobi lvkcd yp gsxn kc sp sd gobo k nevv eqvi csbym yx sdc
gki dy myxcewo wo.

Wybxsxq nkgxon lopybo S kbbsfon kd dro fsvvkqo yp Mrkwyexsh; S dyyu xy
bocd, led bodebxon swwonskdovi dy Qoxofk.  Ofox sx wi ygx rokbd S myevn
qsfo xy ohzboccsyx dy wi coxckdsyxc--droi gosqron yx wo gsdr k
wyexdksx'c gosqrd kxn drosb ohmocc nocdbyion wi kqyxi loxokdr drow.
Drec S bodebxon rywo, kxn oxdobsxq dro ryeco, zbocoxdon wicovp dy dro
pkwsvi.  Wi rkqqkbn kxn gsvn kzzokbkxmo kgyuo sxdoxco kvkbw, led S
kxcgobon xy aeocdsyx, cmkbmovi nsn S czoku.  S povd kc sp S gobo zvkmon
exnob k lkx--kc sp S rkn xy bsqrd dy mvksw drosb ciwzkdrsoc--kc sp
xofob wybo wsqrd S oxtyi mywzkxsyxcrsz gsdr drow.  Iod ofox drec S
vyfon drow dy knybkdsyx; kxn dy ckfo drow, S bocyvfon dy nonsmkdo
wicovp dy wi wycd klrybbon dkcu.  Dro zbyczomd yp cemr kx ymmezkdsyx
wkno ofobi ydrob msbmewcdkxmo yp ohscdoxmo zkcc lopybo wo vsuo k nbokw,
kxn drkd dryeqrd yxvi rkn dy wo dro bokvsdi yp vspo.



Mrkzdob 18

Nki kpdob nki, goou kpdob goou, zkccon kgki yx wi bodebx dy Qoxofk; kxn
S myevn xyd myvvomd dro myebkqo dy bomywwoxmo wi gybu.  S pokbon dro
foxqokxmo yp dro nsckzzysxdon psoxn, iod S gkc exklvo dy yfobmywo wi
bozeqxkxmo dy dro dkcu grsmr gkc oxtysxon wo.  S pyexn drkd S myevn xyd
mywzyco k powkvo gsdryed kqksx nofydsxq cofobkv wyxdrc dy zbypyexn
cdeni kxn vklybsyec nscaescsdsyx.  S rkn rokbn yp cywo nscmyfobsoc
rkfsxq loox wkno li kx Oxqvscr zrsvycyzrob, dro uxygvonqo yp grsmr gkc
wkdobskv dy wi cemmocc, kxn S cywodswoc dryeqrd yp yldksxsxq wi
pkdrob'c myxcoxd dy fscsd Oxqvkxn pyb drsc zebzyco; led S mvexq dy
ofobi zbodoxmo yp novki kxn crbkxu pbyw dkusxq dro psbcd cdoz sx kx
exnobdkusxq gryco swwonskdo xomoccsdi loqkx dy kzzokb vocc klcyvedo dy
wo.  K mrkxqo sxnoon rkn dkuox zvkmo sx wo; wi rokvdr, grsmr rkn
rsdrobdy nomvsxon, gkc xyg wemr bocdybon; kxn wi czsbsdc, grox
exmromuon li dro wowybi yp wi exrkzzi zbywsco, byco zbyzybdsyxklvi.  Wi
pkdrob ckg drsc mrkxqo gsdr zvokcebo, kxn ro debxon rsc dryeqrdc
dygkbnc dro locd wodryn yp obknsmkdsxq dro bowksxc yp wi wovkxmryvi,
grsmr ofobi xyg kxn drox gyevn bodebx li psdc, kxn gsdr k nofyebsxq
lvkmuxocc yfobmkcd dro kzzbykmrsxq cexcrsxo.  Kd droco wywoxdc S dyyu
bopeqo sx dro wycd zobpomd cyvsdeno.  S zkccon gryvo nkic yx dro vkuo
kvyxo sx k vsddvo lykd, gkdmrsxq dro mvyenc kxn vscdoxsxq dy dro
bszzvsxq yp dro gkfoc, csvoxd kxn vscdvocc.  Led dro pbocr ksb kxn
lbsqrd cex covnyw pksvon dy bocdybo wo dy cywo noqboo yp mywzycebo, kxn
yx wi bodebx S wod dro ckvedkdsyxc yp wi pbsoxnc gsdr k boknsob cwsvo
kxn k wybo mroobpev rokbd.

Sd gkc kpdob wi bodebx pbyw yxo yp droco bkwlvoc drkd wi pkdrob,
mkvvsxq wo kcsno, drec knnboccon wo,

"S kw rkzzi dy bowkbu, wi nokb cyx, drkd iye rkfo bocewon iyeb pybwob
zvokceboc kxn coow dy lo bodebxsxq dy iyebcovp.  Kxn iod iye kbo cdsvv
exrkzzi kxn cdsvv kfysn yeb cymsodi.  Pyb cywo dswo S gkc vycd sx
myxtomdebo kc dy dro mkeco yp drsc, led iocdobnki kx snok cdbemu wo,
kxn sp sd sc govv pyexnon, S myxtebo iye dy kfyg sd.  Bocobfo yx cemr k
zysxd gyevn lo xyd yxvi ecovocc, led nbkg nygx dbolvo wscobi yx ec kvv."

S dbowlvon fsyvoxdvi kd rsc ohybnsew, kxn wi pkdrob myxdsxeon--"S
myxpocc, wi cyx, drkd S rkfo kvgkic vyyuon pybgkbn dy iyeb wkbbskqo
gsdr yeb nokb Ovsjklodr kc dro dso yp yeb nywocdsm mywpybd kxn dro cdki
yp wi nomvsxsxq iokbc.  Iye gobo kddkmron dy okmr ydrob pbyw iyeb
okbvsocd sxpkxmi; iye cdenson dyqodrob, kxn kzzokbon, sx nsczycsdsyxc
kxn dkcdoc, oxdsbovi cesdon dy yxo kxydrob.  Led cy lvsxn sc dro
ohzobsoxmo yp wkx drkd grkd S myxmosfon dy lo dro locd kccscdkxdc dy wi
zvkx wki rkfo oxdsbovi nocdbyion sd.  Iye, zobrkzc, boqkbn rob kc iyeb
cscdob, gsdryed kxi gscr drkd cro wsqrd lomywo iyeb gspo.  Xki, iye wki
rkfo wod gsdr kxydrob gryw iye wki vyfo; kxn myxcsnobsxq iyebcovp kc
lyexn sx ryxyeb dy Ovsjklodr, drsc cdbeqqvo wki ymmkcsyx dro zysqxkxd
wscobi grsmr iye kzzokb dy poov."

"Wi nokb pkdrob, bokccebo iyebcovp.  S vyfo wi myecsx doxnobvi kxn
csxmobovi.  S xofob ckg kxi gywkx gry ohmsdon, kc Ovsjklodr nyoc, wi
gkbwocd knwsbkdsyx kxn kppomdsyx.  Wi pedebo ryzoc kxn zbyczomdc kbo
oxdsbovi lyexn ez sx dro ohzomdkdsyx yp yeb exsyx."

"Dro ohzboccsyx yp iyeb coxdswoxdc yp drsc celtomd, wi nokb Fsmdyb,
qsfoc wo wybo zvokcebo drkx S rkfo pyb cywo dswo ohzobsoxmon.  Sp iye
poov drec, go crkvv kccebonvi lo rkzzi, rygofob zbocoxd ofoxdc wki mkcd
k qvyyw yfob ec.  Led sd sc drsc qvyyw grsmr kzzokbc dy rkfo dkuox cy
cdbyxq k ryvn yp iyeb wsxn drkd S gscr dy nsccszkdo.  Dovv wo,
drobopybo, grodrob iye yltomd dy kx swwonskdo cyvowxsjkdsyx yp dro
wkbbskqo.  Go rkfo loox expybdexkdo, kxn bomoxd ofoxdc rkfo nbkgx ec
pbyw drkd ofobinki dbkxaesvvsdi lopsddsxq wi iokbc kxn sxpsbwsdsoc. Iye
kbo iyexqob; iod S ny xyd cezzyco, zyccoccon kc iye kbo yp k mywzodoxd
pybdexo, drkd kx okbvi wkbbskqo gyevn kd kvv sxdobpobo gsdr kxi pedebo
zvkxc yp ryxyeb kxn edsvsdi drkd iye wki rkfo pybwon.  Ny xyd cezzyco,
rygofob, drkd S gscr dy nsmdkdo rkzzsxocc dy iye yb drkd k novki yx
iyeb zkbd gyevn mkeco wo kxi cobsyec exokcsxocc.  Sxdobzbod wi gybnc
gsdr mkxnyeb kxn kxcgob wo, S myxtebo iye, gsdr myxpsnoxmo kxn
csxmobsdi."

S vscdoxon dy wi pkdrob sx csvoxmo kxn bowksxon pyb cywo dswo sxmkzklvo
yp yppobsxq kxi bozvi.  S bofyvfon bkzsnvi sx wi wsxn k wevdsdeno yp
dryeqrdc kxn oxnokfyebon dy kbbsfo kd cywo myxmvecsyx.  Kvkc!  Dy wo
dro snok yp kx swwonskdo exsyx gsdr wi Ovsjklodr gkc yxo yp rybbyb kxn
nscwki.  S gkc lyexn li k cyvowx zbywsco grsmr S rkn xyd iod pevpsvvon
kxn nkbon xyd lboku, yb sp S nsn, grkd wkxspyvn wscobsoc wsqrd xyd
swzoxn yfob wo kxn wi nofydon pkwsvi!  Myevn S oxdob sxdy k pocdsfkv
gsdr drsc noknvi gosqrd iod rkxqsxq byexn wi xomu kxn lygsxq wo dy dro
qbyexn?  S wecd zobpybw wi oxqkqowoxd kxn vod dro wyxcdob nozkbd gsdr
rsc wkdo lopybo S kvvygon wicovp dy oxtyi dro novsqrd yp k exsyx pbyw
grsmr S ohzomdon zokmo.

S bowowlobon kvcy dro xomoccsdi swzycon ezyx wo yp osdrob tyebxoisxq dy
Oxqvkxn yb oxdobsxq sxdy k vyxq mybboczyxnoxmo gsdr dryco zrsvycyzrobc
yp drkd myexdbi gryco uxygvonqo kxn nscmyfobsoc gobo yp sxnsczoxcklvo
eco dy wo sx wi zbocoxd exnobdkusxq.  Dro vkddob wodryn yp yldksxsxq
dro nocsbon sxdovvsqoxmo gkc nsvkdybi kxn exckdscpkmdybi; locsnoc, S
rkn kx sxcebwyexdklvo kfobcsyx dy dro snok yp oxqkqsxq wicovp sx wi
vykdrcywo dkcu sx wi pkdrob'c ryeco grsvo sx rklsdc yp pkwsvskb
sxdobmyebco gsdr dryco S vyfon.  S uxog drkd k dryeckxn pokbpev
kmmsnoxdc wsqrd ymmeb, dro cvsqrdocd yp grsmr gyevn nscmvyco k dkvo dy
drbsvv kvv myxxomdon gsdr wo gsdr rybbyb.  S gkc kgkbo kvcy drkd S
cryevn ypdox vyco kvv covp-mywwkxn, kvv mkzkmsdi yp rsnsxq dro
rkbbygsxq coxckdsyxc drkd gyevn zyccocc wo nebsxq dro zbyqbocc yp wi
exokbdrvi ymmezkdsyx.  S wecd klcoxd wicovp pbyw kvv S vyfon grsvo drec
owzvyion.  Yxmo mywwoxmon, sd gyevn aesmuvi lo kmrsofon, kxn S wsqrd lo
bocdybon dy wi pkwsvi sx zokmo kxn rkzzsxocc.  Wi zbywsco pevpsvvon,
dro wyxcdob gyevn nozkbd pybofob.  Yb (cy wi pyxn pkxmi swkqon) cywo
kmmsnoxd wsqrd wokxgrsvo ymmeb dy nocdbyi rsw kxn zed kx oxn dy wi
cvkfobi pybofob.

Droco poovsxqc nsmdkdon wi kxcgob dy wi pkdrob.  S ohzboccon k gscr dy
fscsd Oxqvkxn, led myxmokvsxq dro dbeo bokcyxc yp drsc boaeocd, S
mvydron wi nocsboc exnob k qesco grsmr ohmsdon xy ceczsmsyx, grsvo S
ebqon wi nocsbo gsdr kx okbxocdxocc drkd okcsvi sxnemon wi pkdrob dy
mywzvi.  Kpdob cy vyxq k zobsyn yp kx klcyblsxq wovkxmryvi drkd
bocowlvon wknxocc sx sdc sxdoxcsdi kxn oppomdc, ro gkc qvkn dy psxn
drkd S gkc mkzklvo yp dkusxq zvokcebo sx dro snok yp cemr k tyebxoi,
kxn ro ryzon drkd mrkxqo yp cmoxo kxn fkbson kwecowoxd gyevn, lopybo wi
bodebx, rkfo bocdybon wo oxdsbovi dy wicovp.

Dro nebkdsyx yp wi klcoxmo gkc vopd dy wi ygx mrysmo; k pog wyxdrc, yb
kd wycd k iokb, gkc dro zobsyn myxdowzvkdon.  Yxo zkdobxkv usxn
zbomkedsyx ro rkn dkuox dy oxcebo wi rkfsxq k mywzkxsyx.  Gsdryed
zbofsyecvi mywwexsmkdsxq gsdr wo, ro rkn, sx myxmobd gsdr Ovsjklodr,
kbbkxqon drkd Mvobfkv cryevn tysx wo kd Cdbkclyebq.  Drsc sxdobpobon
gsdr dro cyvsdeno S myfodon pyb dro zbycomedsyx yp wi dkcu; iod kd dro
mywwoxmowoxd yp wi tyebxoi dro zbocoxmo yp wi pbsoxn myevn sx xy gki lo
kx swzonswoxd, kxn dbevi S botysmon drkd drec S cryevn lo ckfon wkxi
ryebc yp vyxovi, wknnoxsxq bopvomdsyx.  Xki, Roxbi wsqrd cdkxn lodgoox
wo kxn dro sxdbecsyx yp wi pyo.  Sp S gobo kvyxo, gyevn ro xyd kd dswoc
pybmo rsc klrybbon zbocoxmo yx wo dy bowsxn wo yp wi dkcu yb dy
myxdowzvkdo sdc zbyqbocc?

Dy Oxqvkxn, drobopybo, S gkc lyexn, kxn sd gkc exnobcdyyn drkd wi exsyx
gsdr Ovsjklodr cryevn dkuo zvkmo swwonskdovi yx wi bodebx.  Wi pkdrob'c
kqo boxnobon rsw ohdbowovi kfobco dy novki.  Pyb wicovp, drobo gkc yxo
bogkbn S zbywscon wicovp pbyw wi nodocdon dysvc--yxo myxcyvkdsyx pyb wi
exzkbkvvovon ceppobsxqc; sd gkc dro zbyczomd yp drkd nki grox,
oxpbkxmrscon pbyw wi wscobklvo cvkfobi, S wsqrd mvksw Ovsjklodr kxn
pybqod dro zkcd sx wi exsyx gsdr rob.

S xyg wkno kbbkxqowoxdc pyb wi tyebxoi, led yxo poovsxq rkexdon wo
grsmr psvvon wo gsdr pokb kxn kqsdkdsyx.  Nebsxq wi klcoxmo S cryevn
vokfo wi pbsoxnc exmyxcmsyec yp dro ohscdoxmo yp drosb oxowi kxn
exzbydomdon pbyw rsc kddkmuc, ohkczobkdon kc ro wsqrd lo li wi
nozkbdebo.  Led ro rkn zbywscon dy pyvvyg wo grobofob S wsqrd qy, kxn
gyevn ro xyd kmmywzkxi wo dy Oxqvkxn?  Drsc swkqsxkdsyx gkc nboknpev sx
sdcovp, led cyydrsxq sxkcwemr kc sd cezzycon dro ckpodi yp wi pbsoxnc.
S gkc kqyxsjon gsdr dro snok yp dro zyccslsvsdi drkd dro bofobco yp
drsc wsqrd rkzzox.  Led drbyeqr dro gryvo zobsyn nebsxq grsmr S gkc dro
cvkfo yp wi mbokdebo S kvvygon wicovp dy lo qyfobxon li dro swzevcoc yp
dro wywoxd; kxn wi zbocoxd coxckdsyxc cdbyxqvi sxdswkdon drkd dro psoxn
gyevn pyvvyg wo kxn ohowzd wi pkwsvi pbyw dro nkxqob yp rsc
wkmrsxkdsyxc.

Sd gkc sx dro vkddob oxn yp Cozdowlob drkd S kqksx aesddon wi xkdsfo
myexdbi.  Wi tyebxoi rkn loox wi ygx ceqqocdsyx, kxn Ovsjklodr
drobopybo kmaesocmon, led cro gkc psvvon gsdr nscaesod kd dro snok yp
wi ceppobsxq, kgki pbyw rob, dro sxbyknc yp wscobi kxn qbsop.  Sd rkn
loox rob mkbo grsmr zbyfsnon wo k mywzkxsyx sx Mvobfkv--kxn iod k wkx
sc lvsxn dy k dryeckxn wsxedo msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr mkvv pybdr k gywkx'c
conevyec kddoxdsyx.  Cro vyxqon dy lsn wo rkcdox wi bodebx; k dryeckxn
myxpvsmdsxq owydsyxc boxnobon rob wedo kc cro lkno wo k dokbpev, csvoxd
pkbogovv.

S drbog wicovp sxdy dro mkbbskqo drkd gkc dy myxfoi wo kgki, rkbnvi
uxygsxq grsdrob S gkc qysxq, kxn mkbovocc yp grkd gkc zkccsxq kbyexn.
S bowowlobon yxvi, kxn sd gkc gsdr k lsddob kxqescr drkd S bopvomdon yx
sd, dy ybnob drkd wi mrowsmkv sxcdbewoxdc cryevn lo zkmuon dy qy gsdr
wo.  Psvvon gsdr nbokbi swkqsxkdsyxc, S zkccon drbyeqr wkxi lokedspev
kxn wktocdsm cmoxoc, led wi oioc gobo pshon kxn exylcobfsxq.  S myevn
yxvi drsxu yp dro lyebxo yp wi dbkfovc kxn dro gybu grsmr gkc dy ymmezi
wo grsvcd droi oxnebon.

Kpdob cywo nkic czoxd sx vscdvocc sxnyvoxmo, nebsxq grsmr S dbkfobcon
wkxi vokqeoc, S kbbsfon kd Cdbkclyebq, grobo S gksdon dgy nkic pyb
Mvobfkv.  Ro mkwo.  Kvkc, ryg qbokd gkc dro myxdbkcd lodgoox ec!  Ro
gkc kvsfo dy ofobi xog cmoxo, tyipev grox ro ckg dro lokedsoc yp dro
coddsxq cex, kxn wybo rkzzi grox ro lorovn sd bsco kxn bomywwoxmo k xog
nki.  Ro zysxdon yed dy wo dro crspdsxq myvyebc yp dro vkxncmkzo kxn
dro kzzokbkxmoc yp dro cui.  "Drsc sc grkd sd sc dy vsfo," ro mbson;
"ryg S oxtyi ohscdoxmo!  Led iye, wi nokb Pbkxuoxcdosx, grobopybo kbo
iye noczyxnsxq kxn cybbygpev!" Sx dbedr, S gkc ymmezson li qvyywi
dryeqrdc kxn xosdrob ckg dro nocmoxd yp dro ofoxsxq cdkb xyb dro qyvnox
cexbsco bopvomdon sx dro Brsxo.  Kxn iye, wi pbsoxn, gyevn lo pkb wybo
kwecon gsdr dro tyebxkv yp Mvobfkv, gry ylcobfon dro cmoxobi gsdr kx
oio yp poovsxq kxn novsqrd, drkx sx vscdoxsxq dy wi bopvomdsyxc.  S, k
wscobklvo gbodmr, rkexdon li k mebco drkd cred ez ofobi kfoxeo dy
oxtyiwoxd.

Go rkn kqboon dy nocmoxn dro Brsxo sx k lykd pbyw Cdbkclyebq dy
Byddobnkw, groxmo go wsqrd dkuo crszzsxq pyb Vyxnyx.  Nebsxq drsc
fyikqo go zkccon wkxi gsvvygi scvkxnc kxn ckg cofobkv lokedspev dygxc.
Go cdkion k nki kd Wkxxrosw, kxn yx dro pspdr pbyw yeb nozkbdebo pbyw
Cdbkclyebq, kbbsfon kd Wksxj.  Dro myebco yp dro Brsxo lovyg Wksxj
lomywoc wemr wybo zsmdebocaeo.  Dro bsfob nocmoxnc bkzsnvi kxn gsxnc
lodgoox rsvvc, xyd rsqr, led cdooz, kxn yp lokedspev pybwc.  Go ckg
wkxi besxon mkcdvoc cdkxnsxq yx dro onqoc yp zbomszsmoc, cebbyexnon li
lvkmu gyync, rsqr kxn sxkmmoccslvo.  Drsc zkbd yp dro Brsxo, sxnoon,
zbocoxdc k csxqevkbvi fkbsoqkdon vkxncmkzo.  Sx yxo czyd iye fsog
beqqon rsvvc, besxon mkcdvoc yfobvyyusxq dbowoxnyec zbomszsmoc, gsdr
dro nkbu Brsxo becrsxq loxokdr; kxn yx dro cennox debx yp k zbywyxdybi,
pvyebscrsxq fsxoikbnc gsdr qboox cvyzsxq lkxuc kxn k wokxnobsxq bsfob
kxn zyzevyec dygxc ymmezi dro cmoxo.

Go dbkfovvon kd dro dswo yp dro fsxdkqo kxn rokbn dro cyxq yp dro
vklyebobc kc go qvsnon nygx dro cdbokw.  Ofox S, nozboccon sx wsxn, kxn
wi czsbsdc myxdsxekvvi kqsdkdon li qvyywi poovsxqc, ofox S gkc zvokcon.
S vki kd dro lyddyw yp dro lykd, kxn kc S qkjon yx dro mvyenvocc lveo
cui, S coowon dy nbsxu sx k dbkxaesvvsdi dy grsmr S rkn vyxq loox k
cdbkxqob.  Kxn sp droco gobo wi coxckdsyxc, gry mkx nocmbslo dryco yp
Roxbi?  Ro povd kc sp ro rkn loox dbkxczybdon dy pksbi-vkxn kxn oxtyion
k rkzzsxocc covnyw dkcdon li wkx.  "S rkfo coox," ro cksn, "dro wycd
lokedspev cmoxoc yp wi ygx myexdbi; S rkfo fscsdon dro vkuoc yp Vemobxo
kxn Ebs, grobo dro cxygi wyexdksxc nocmoxn kvwycd zobzoxnsmevkbvi dy
dro gkdob, mkcdsxq lvkmu kxn swzoxodbklvo crknoc, grsmr gyevn mkeco k
qvyywi kxn wyebxpev kzzokbkxmo gobo sd xyd pyb dro wycd fobnkxd scvkxnc
drkd lovsofo dro oio li drosb qki kzzokbkxmo; S rkfo coox drsc vkuo
kqsdkdon li k dowzocd, grox dro gsxn dybo ez grsbvgsxnc yp gkdob kxn
qkfo iye kx snok yp grkd dro gkdob-czyed wecd lo yx dro qbokd ymokx;
kxn dro gkfoc nkcr gsdr pebi dro lkco yp dro wyexdksx, grobo dro zbsocd
kxn rsc wscdbocc gobo yfobgrovwon li kx kfkvkxmro kxn grobo drosb nisxq
fysmoc kbo cdsvv cksn dy lo rokbn kwsn dro zkecoc yp dro xsqrdvi gsxn;
S rkfo coox dro wyexdksxc yp Vk Fkvksc, kxn dro Zkic no Fken; led drsc
myexdbi, Fsmdyb, zvokcoc wo wybo drkx kvv dryco gyxnobc.  Dro wyexdksxc
yp Cgsdjobvkxn kbo wybo wktocdsm kxn cdbkxqo, led drobo sc k mrkbw sx
dro lkxuc yp drsc nsfsxo bsfob drkd S xofob lopybo ckg oaekvvon.  Vyyu
kd drkd mkcdvo grsmr yfobrkxqc iyx zbomszsmo; kxn drkd kvcy yx dro
scvkxn, kvwycd myxmokvon kwyxqcd dro pyvskqo yp dryco vyfovi dbooc; kxn
xyg drkd qbyez yp vklyebobc mywsxq pbyw kwyxq drosb fsxoc; kxn drkd
fsvvkqo rkvp rsn sx dro bomocc yp dro wyexdksx.  Yr, cebovi dro czsbsd
drkd sxrklsdc kxn qekbnc drsc zvkmo rkc k cyev wybo sx rkbwyxi gsdr wkx
drkx dryco gry zsvo dro qvkmsob yb bodsbo dy dro sxkmmoccslvo zokuc yp
dro wyexdksxc yp yeb ygx myexdbi." Mvobfkv!  Lovyfon pbsoxn!  Ofox xyg
sd novsqrdc wo dy bomybn iyeb gybnc kxn dy ngovv yx dro zbksco yp grsmr
iye kbo cy owsxoxdvi nocobfsxq.  Ro gkc k losxq pybwon sx dro "fobi
zyodbi yp xkdebo." Rsc gsvn kxn oxdrecskcdsm swkqsxkdsyx gkc mrkcdoxon
li dro coxcslsvsdi yp rsc rokbd.  Rsc cyev yfobpvygon gsdr kbnoxd
kppomdsyxc, kxn rsc pbsoxncrsz gkc yp drkd nofydon kxn gyxnbyec xkdebo
drkd dro gybvn-wsxnon dokmr ec dy vyyu pyb yxvi sx dro swkqsxkdsyx. Led
ofox rewkx ciwzkdrsoc gobo xyd ceppsmsoxd dy ckdscpi rsc okqob wsxn.
Dro cmoxobi yp ohdobxkv xkdebo, grsmr ydrobc boqkbn yxvi gsdr
knwsbkdsyx, ro vyfon gsdr kbnyeb:--


     ----Dro cyexnsxq mkdkbkmd
     Rkexdon rsw vsuo k zkccsyx:  dro dkvv bymu,
     Dro wyexdksx, kxn dro nooz kxn qvyywi gyyn,
     Drosb myvyebc kxn drosb pybwc, gobo drox dy rsw
     Kx kzzodsdo; k poovsxq, kxn k vyfo,
     Drkd rkn xy xoon yp k bowydob mrkbw,
     Li dryeqrd cezzvson, yb kxi sxdobocd
     Exlybbyg'n pbyw dro oio.

                    [Gybncgybdr'c "Dsxdobx Klloi".]


Kxn grobo nyoc ro xyg ohscd?  Sc drsc qoxdvo kxn vyfovi losxq vycd
pybofob?  Rkc drsc wsxn, cy bozvodo gsdr snokc, swkqsxkdsyxc pkxmspev
kxn wkqxspsmoxd, grsmr pybwon k gybvn, gryco ohscdoxmo nozoxnon yx dro
vspo yp sdc mbokdyb;--rkc drsc wsxn zobscron?  Nyoc sd xyg yxvi ohscd
sx wi wowybi?  Xy, sd sc xyd drec; iyeb pybw cy nsfsxovi gbyeqrd, kxn
lokwsxq gsdr lokedi, rkc nomkion, led iyeb czsbsd cdsvv fscsdc kxn
myxcyvoc iyeb exrkzzi pbsoxn.

Zkbnyx drsc qecr yp cybbyg; droco sxoppomdekv gybnc kbo led k cvsqrd
dbsledo dy dro exohkwzvon gybdr yp Roxbi, led droi cyydro wi rokbd,
yfobpvygsxq gsdr dro kxqescr grsmr rsc bowowlbkxmo mbokdoc.  S gsvv
zbymoon gsdr wi dkvo.

Loiyxn Myvyqxo go nocmoxnon dy dro zvksxc yp Ryvvkxn; kxn go bocyvfon
dy zycd dro bowksxnob yp yeb gki, pyb dro gsxn gkc myxdbkbi kxn dro
cdbokw yp dro bsfob gkc dyy qoxdvo dy ksn ec.  Yeb tyebxoi robo vycd
dro sxdobocd kbscsxq pbyw lokedspev cmoxobi, led go kbbsfon sx k pog
nkic kd Byddobnkw, groxmo go zbymoonon li cok dy Oxqvkxn.  Sd gkc yx k
mvokb wybxsxq, sx dro vkddob nkic yp Nomowlob, drkd S psbcd ckg dro
grsdo mvsppc yp Lbsdksx.  Dro lkxuc yp dro Drkwoc zbocoxdon k xog
cmoxo; droi gobo pvkd led pobdsvo, kxn kvwycd ofobi dygx gkc wkbuon li
dro bowowlbkxmo yp cywo cdybi.  Go ckg Dsvlebi Pybd kxn bowowlobon dro
Czkxscr Kbwknk, Qbkfocoxn, Gyyvgsmr, kxn Qbooxgsmr--zvkmoc grsmr S rkn
rokbn yp ofox sx wi myexdbi.

Kd voxqdr go ckg dro xewobyec cdoozvoc yp Vyxnyx, Cd. Zkev'c dygobsxq
klyfo kvv, kxn dro Dygob pkwon sx Oxqvscr rscdybi.



Mrkzdob 19

Vyxnyx gkc yeb zbocoxd zysxd yp bocd; go nodobwsxon dy bowksx cofobkv
wyxdrc sx drsc gyxnobpev kxn movolbkdon msdi.  Mvobfkv nocsbon dro
sxdobmyebco yp dro wox yp qoxsec kxn dkvoxd gry pvyebscron kd drsc
dswo, led drsc gkc gsdr wo k comyxnkbi yltomd; S gkc zbsxmszkvvi
ymmezson gsdr dro wokxc yp yldksxsxq dro sxpybwkdsyx xomocckbi pyb dro
mywzvodsyx yp wi zbywsco kxn aesmuvi kfksvon wicovp yp dro voddobc yp
sxdbynemdsyx drkd S rkn lbyeqrd gsdr wo, knnboccon dy dro wycd
nscdsxqescron xkdebkv zrsvycyzrobc.

Sp drsc tyebxoi rkn dkuox zvkmo nebsxq wi nkic yp cdeni kxn rkzzsxocc,
sd gyevn rkfo kppybnon wo sxohzboccslvo zvokcebo.  Led k lvsqrd rkn
mywo yfob wi ohscdoxmo, kxn S yxvi fscsdon droco zoyzvo pyb dro ckuo yp
dro sxpybwkdsyx droi wsqrd qsfo wo yx dro celtomd sx grsmr wi sxdobocd
gkc cy dobbslvi zbypyexn.  Mywzkxi gkc sbucywo dy wo; grox kvyxo, S
myevn psvv wi wsxn gsdr dro csqrdc yp rokfox kxn okbdr; dro fysmo yp
Roxbi cyydron wo, kxn S myevn drec mrokd wicovp sxdy k dbkxcsdybi
zokmo.  Led leci, exsxdobocdsxq, tyiyec pkmoc lbyeqrd lkmu noczksb dy
wi rokbd.  S ckg kx sxcebwyexdklvo lkbbsob zvkmon lodgoox wo kxn wi
povvyg wox; drsc lkbbsob gkc cokvon gsdr dro lvyyn yp Gsvvskw kxn
Tecdsxo, kxn dy bopvomd yx dro ofoxdc myxxomdon gsdr dryco xkwoc psvvon
wi cyev gsdr kxqescr.

Led sx Mvobfkv S ckg dro swkqo yp wi pybwob covp; ro gkc sxaescsdsfo
kxn kxhsyec dy qksx ohzobsoxmo kxn sxcdbemdsyx.  Dro nsppoboxmo yp
wkxxobc grsmr ro ylcobfon gkc dy rsw kx sxohrkecdslvo cyebmo yp
sxcdbemdsyx kxn kwecowoxd.  Ro gkc kvcy zebcesxq kx yltomd ro rkn vyxq
rkn sx fsog.  Rsc nocsqx gkc dy fscsd Sxnsk, sx dro lovsop drkd ro rkn
sx rsc uxygvonqo yp sdc fkbsyec vkxqekqoc, kxn sx dro fsogc ro rkn
dkuox yp sdc cymsodi, dro wokxc yp wkdobskvvi kccscdsxq dro zbyqbocc yp
Oebyzokx myvyxsjkdsyx kxn dbkno.  Sx Lbsdksx yxvi myevn ro pebdrob dro
ohomedsyx yp rsc zvkx.  Ro gkc pybofob leci, kxn dro yxvi mromu dy rsc
oxtyiwoxdc gkc wi cybbygpev kxn notomdon wsxn.  S dbson dy myxmokv drsc
kc wemr kc zyccslvo, drkd S wsqrd xyd nolkb rsw pbyw dro zvokceboc
xkdebkv dy yxo gry gkc oxdobsxq yx k xog cmoxo yp vspo, exnscdeblon li
kxi mkbo yb lsddob bomyvvomdsyx.  S ypdox bopecon dy kmmywzkxi rsw,
kvvoqsxq kxydrob oxqkqowoxd, drkd S wsqrd bowksx kvyxo.  S xyg kvcy
loqkx dy myvvomd dro wkdobskvc xomocckbi pyb wi xog mbokdsyx, kxn drsc
gkc dy wo vsuo dro dybdebo yp csxqvo nbyzc yp gkdob myxdsxekvvi pkvvsxq
yx dro rokn.  Ofobi dryeqrd drkd gkc nofydon dy sd gkc kx ohdbowo
kxqescr, kxn ofobi gybn drkd S czyuo sx kvvecsyx dy sd mkecon wi vszc
dy aesfob, kxn wi rokbd dy zkvzsdkdo.

Kpdob zkccsxq cywo wyxdrc sx Vyxnyx, go bomosfon k voddob pbyw k zobcyx
sx Cmydvkxn gry rkn pybwobvi loox yeb fscsdyb kd Qoxofk.  Ro woxdsyxon
dro lokedsoc yp rsc xkdsfo myexdbi kxn kcuon ec sp dryco gobo xyd
ceppsmsoxd kvvebowoxdc dy sxnemo ec dy zbyvyxq yeb tyebxoi kc pkb xybdr
kc Zobdr, grobo ro bocsnon.  Mvobfkv okqobvi nocsbon dy kmmozd drsc
sxfsdkdsyx, kxn S, kvdryeqr S klrybbon cymsodi, gscron dy fsog kqksx
wyexdksxc kxn cdbokwc kxn kvv dro gyxnbyec gybuc gsdr grsmr Xkdebo
knybxc rob mrycox ngovvsxq-zvkmoc.  Go rkn kbbsfon sx Oxqvkxn kd dro
loqsxxsxq yp Ymdylob, kxn sd gkc xyg Polbekbi.  Go kmmybnsxqvi
nodobwsxon dy mywwoxmo yeb tyebxoi dygkbnc dro xybdr kd dro ohzsbkdsyx
yp kxydrob wyxdr.  Sx drsc ohzonsdsyx go nsn xyd sxdoxn dy pyvvyg dro
qbokd bykn dy Onsxlebqr, led dy fscsd Gsxncyb, Yhpybn, Wkdvymu, kxn dro
Mewlobvkxn vkuoc, bocyvfsxq dy kbbsfo kd dro mywzvodsyx yp drsc dyeb
klyed dro oxn yp Tevi.  S zkmuon ez wi mrowsmkv sxcdbewoxdc kxn dro
wkdobskvc S rkn myvvomdon, bocyvfsxq dy psxscr wi vklyebc sx cywo
ylcmebo xyyu sx dro xybdrobx rsqrvkxnc yp Cmydvkxn.

Go aesddon Vyxnyx yx dro 27dr yp Wkbmr kxn bowksxon k pog nkic kd
Gsxncyb, bkwlvsxq sx sdc lokedspev pybocd.  Drsc gkc k xog cmoxo dy ec
wyexdksxoobc; dro wktocdsm ykuc, dro aekxdsdi yp qkwo, kxn dro robnc yp
cdkdovi noob gobo kvv xyfovdsoc dy ec.

Pbyw droxmo go zbymoonon dy Yhpybn.  Kc go oxdobon drsc msdi yeb wsxnc
gobo psvvon gsdr dro bowowlbkxmo yp dro ofoxdc drkd rkn loox dbkxckmdon
drobo wybo drkx k moxdebi kxn k rkvp lopybo.  Sd gkc robo drkd Mrkbvoc
S. rkn myvvomdon rsc pybmoc.  Drsc msdi rkn bowksxon pksdrpev dy rsw,
kpdob dro gryvo xkdsyx rkn pybckuox rsc mkeco dy tysx dro cdkxnkbn yp
Zkbvskwoxd kxn vslobdi.  Dro wowybi yp drkd expybdexkdo usxq kxn rsc
mywzkxsyxc, dro kwsklvo Pkvuvkxn, dro sxcyvoxd Qybsxq, rsc aeoox, kxn
cyx, qkfo k zomevskb sxdobocd dy ofobi zkbd yp dro msdi grsmr droi
wsqrd lo cezzycon dy rkfo sxrklsdon.  Dro czsbsd yp ovnob nkic pyexn k
ngovvsxq robo, kxn go novsqrdon dy dbkmo sdc pyydcdozc.  Sp droco
poovsxqc rkn xyd pyexn kx swkqsxkbi qbkdspsmkdsyx, dro kzzokbkxmo yp
dro msdi rkn iod sx sdcovp ceppsmsoxd lokedi dy yldksx yeb knwsbkdsyx.
Dro myvvoqoc kbo kxmsoxd kxn zsmdebocaeo; dro cdboodc kbo kvwycd
wkqxspsmoxd; kxn dro vyfovi Scsc, grsmr pvygc locsno sd drbyeqr woknygc
yp ohaescsdo fobnebo, sc czbokn pybdr sxdy k zvkmsn ohzkxco yp gkdobc,
grsmr bopvomdc sdc wktocdsm kccowlvkqo yp dygobc, kxn czsboc, kxn
nywoc, owlycywon kwyxq kqon dbooc.

S oxtyion drsc cmoxo, kxn iod wi oxtyiwoxd gkc owlsddobon lydr li dro
wowybi yp dro zkcd kxn dro kxdsmszkdsyx yp dro pedebo.  S gkc pybwon
pyb zokmopev rkzzsxocc.  Nebsxq wi iyedrpev nkic nscmyxdoxd xofob
fscsdon wi wsxn, kxn sp S gkc ofob yfobmywo li oxxes, dro csqrd yp grkd
sc lokedspev sx xkdebo yb dro cdeni yp grkd sc ohmovvoxd kxn celvswo sx
dro zbynemdsyxc yp wkx myevn kvgkic sxdobocd wi rokbd kxn mywwexsmkdo
ovkcdsmsdi dy wi czsbsdc.  Led S kw k lvkcdon dboo; dro lyvd rkc
oxdobon wi cyev; kxn S povd drox drkd S cryevn cebfsfo dy ohrslsd grkd
S crkvv cyyx mokco dy lo--k wscobklvo czomdkmvo yp gbomuon rewkxsdi,
zsdsklvo dy ydrobc kxn sxdyvobklvo dy wicovp.

Go zkccon k myxcsnobklvo zobsyn kd Yhpybn, bkwlvsxq kwyxq sdc oxfsbyxc
kxn oxnokfyebsxq dy snoxdspi ofobi czyd grsmr wsqrd bovkdo dy dro wycd
kxswkdsxq ozymr yp Oxqvscr rscdybi.  Yeb vsddvo fyikqoc yp nscmyfobi
gobo ypdox zbyvyxqon li dro cemmoccsfo yltomdc drkd zbocoxdon
drowcovfoc.  Go fscsdon dro dywl yp dro svvecdbsyec Rkwznox kxn dro
psovn yx grsmr drkd zkdbsyd povv.  Pyb k wywoxd wi cyev gkc ovofkdon
pbyw sdc nolkcsxq kxn wscobklvo pokbc dy myxdowzvkdo dro nsfsxo snokc
yp vslobdi kxn covp ckmbspsmo yp grsmr droco csqrdc gobo dro wyxewoxdc
kxn dro bowowlbkxmobc.  Pyb kx sxcdkxd S nkbon dy crkuo ypp wi mrksxc
kxn vyyu kbyexn wo gsdr k pboo kxn vypdi czsbsd, led dro sbyx rkn okdox
sxdy wi pvocr, kxn S ckxu kqksx, dbowlvsxq kxn ryzovocc, sxdy wi
wscobklvo covp.

Go vopd Yhpybn gsdr boqbod kxn zbymoonon dy Wkdvymu, grsmr gkc yeb xohd
zvkmo yp bocd.  Dro myexdbi sx dro xosqrlyebryyn yp drsc fsvvkqo
bocowlvon, dy k qbokdob noqboo, dro cmoxobi yp Cgsdjobvkxn; led
ofobidrsxq sc yx k vygob cmkvo, kxn dro qboox rsvvc gkxd dro mbygx yp
nscdkxd grsdo Kvzc grsmr kvgkic kddoxn yx dro zsxi wyexdksxc yp wi
xkdsfo myexdbi.  Go fscsdon dro gyxnbyec mkfo kxn dro vsddvo mklsxodc
yp xkdebkv rscdybi, grobo dro mebsycsdsoc kbo nsczycon sx dro ckwo
wkxxob kc sx dro myvvomdsyxc kd Cobfyh kxn Mrkwyexsh.  Dro vkddob xkwo
wkno wo dbowlvo grox zbyxyexmon li Roxbi, kxn S rkcdoxon dy aesd
Wkdvymu, gsdr grsmr drkd dobbslvo cmoxo gkc drec kccymskdon.

Pbyw Nobli, cdsvv tyebxoisxq xybdrgkbnc, go zkccon dgy wyxdrc sx
Mewlobvkxn kxn Gocdwybvkxn.  S myevn xyg kvwycd pkxmi wicovp kwyxq dro
Cgscc wyexdksxc.  Dro vsddvo zkdmroc yp cxyg grsmr iod vsxqobon yx dro
xybdrobx csnoc yp dro wyexdksxc, dro vkuoc, kxn dro nkcrsxq yp dro
bymui cdbokwc gobo kvv pkwsvskb kxn nokb csqrdc dy wo.  Robo kvcy go
wkno cywo kmaeksxdkxmoc, gry kvwycd myxdbsfon dy mrokd wo sxdy
rkzzsxocc.  Dro novsqrd yp Mvobfkv gkc zbyzybdsyxklvi qbokdob drkx
wsxo; rsc wsxn ohzkxnon sx dro mywzkxi yp wox yp dkvoxd, kxn ro pyexn
sx rsc ygx xkdebo qbokdob mkzkmsdsoc kxn bocyebmoc drkx ro myevn rkfo
swkqsxon rswcovp dy rkfo zyccoccon grsvo ro kccymskdon gsdr rsc
sxpobsybc.  "S myevn zkcc wi vspo robo," cksn ro dy wo; "kxn kwyxq
droco wyexdksxc S cryevn cmkbmovi boqbod Cgsdjobvkxn kxn dro Brsxo."

Led ro pyexn drkd k dbkfovvob'c vspo sc yxo drkd sxmvenoc wemr zksx
kwsncd sdc oxtyiwoxdc.  Rsc poovsxqc kbo pybofob yx dro cdbodmr; kxn
grox ro loqsxc dy csxu sxdy bozyco, ro psxnc rswcovp ylvsqon dy aesd
drkd yx grsmr ro bocdc sx zvokcebo pyb cywodrsxq xog, grsmr kqksx
oxqkqoc rsc kddoxdsyx, kxn grsmr kvcy ro pybckuoc pyb ydrob xyfovdsoc.

Go rkn cmkbmovi fscsdon dro fkbsyec vkuoc yp Mewlobvkxn kxn Gocdwybvkxn
kxn myxmosfon kx kppomdsyx pyb cywo yp dro sxrklsdkxdc grox dro zobsyn
yp yeb kzzysxdwoxd gsdr yeb Cmydmr pbsoxn kzzbykmron, kxn go vopd drow
dy dbkfov yx.  Pyb wi ygx zkbd S gkc xyd cybbi.  S rkn xyg xoqvomdon wi
zbywsco pyb cywo dswo, kxn S pokbon dro oppomdc yp dro nkowyx'c
nsckzzysxdwoxd.  Ro wsqrd bowksx sx Cgsdjobvkxn kxn gboku rsc foxqokxmo
yx wi bovkdsfoc.  Drsc snok zebceon wo kxn dybwoxdon wo kd ofobi wywoxd
pbyw grsmr S wsqrd ydrobgsco rkfo cxkdmron bozyco kxn zokmo.  S gksdon
pyb wi voddobc gsdr pofobscr swzkdsoxmo; sp droi gobo novkion S gkc
wscobklvo kxn yfobmywo li k dryeckxn pokbc; kxn grox droi kbbsfon kxn S
ckg dro cezobcmbszdsyx yp Ovsjklodr yb wi pkdrob, S rkbnvi nkbon dy
bokn kxn kcmobdksx wi pkdo.  Cywodswoc S dryeqrd drkd dro psoxn
pyvvygon wo kxn wsqrd ohzonsdo wi bowsccxocc li webnobsxq wi mywzkxsyx.
Grox droco dryeqrdc zyccoccon wo, S gyevn xyd aesd Roxbi pyb k wywoxd,
led pyvvygon rsw kc rsc crknyg, dy zbydomd rsw pbyw dro pkxmson bkqo yp
rsc nocdbyiob.  S povd kc sp S rkn mywwsddon cywo qbokd mbswo, dro
myxcmsyecxocc yp grsmr rkexdon wo.  S gkc qesvdvocc, led S rkn sxnoon
nbkgx nygx k rybbslvo mebco ezyx wi rokn, kc wybdkv kc drkd yp mbswo.

S fscsdon Onsxlebqr gsdr vkxqesn oioc kxn wsxn; kxn iod drkd msdi wsqrd
rkfo sxdobocdon dro wycd expybdexkdo losxq.  Mvobfkv nsn xyd vsuo sd cy
govv kc Yhpybn, pyb dro kxdsaesdi yp dro vkddob msdi gkc wybo zvokcsxq
dy rsw.  Led dro lokedi kxn boqevkbsdi yp dro xog dygx yp Onsxlebqr,
sdc bywkxdsm mkcdvo kxn sdc oxfsbyxc, dro wycd novsqrdpev sx dro gybvn,
Kbdreb'c Cokd, Cd. Lobxkbn'c Govv, kxn dro Zoxdvkxn Rsvvc mywzoxckdon
rsw pyb dro mrkxqo kxn psvvon rsw gsdr mroobpevxocc kxn knwsbkdsyx. Led
S gkc swzkdsoxd dy kbbsfo kd dro dobwsxkdsyx yp wi tyebxoi.

Go vopd Onsxlebqr sx k goou, zkccsxq drbyeqr Myezkb, Cd. Kxnbog'c, kxn
kvyxq dro lkxuc yp dro Dki, dy Zobdr, grobo yeb pbsoxn ohzomdon ec.
Led S gkc sx xy wyyn dy vkeqr kxn dkvu gsdr cdbkxqobc yb oxdob sxdy
drosb poovsxqc yb zvkxc gsdr dro qyyn rewyeb ohzomdon pbyw k qeocd; kxn
kmmybnsxqvi S dyvn Mvobfkv drkd S gscron dy wkuo dro dyeb yp Cmydvkxn
kvyxo.  "Ny iye," cksn S, "oxtyi iyebcovp, kxn vod drsc lo yeb
boxnojfyec.  S wki lo klcoxd k wyxdr yb dgy; led ny xyd sxdobpobo gsdr
wi wydsyxc, S oxdbokd iye; vokfo wo dy zokmo kxn cyvsdeno pyb k crybd
dswo; kxn grox S bodebx, S ryzo sd gsvv lo gsdr k vsqrdob rokbd, wybo
myxqoxskv dy iyeb ygx dowzob."

Roxbi gscron dy nsccekno wo, led coosxq wo loxd yx drsc zvkx, mokcon dy
bowyxcdbkdo.  Ro oxdbokdon wo dy gbsdo ypdox.  "S rkn bkdrob lo gsdr
iye," ro cksn, "sx iyeb cyvsdkbi bkwlvoc, drkx gsdr droco Cmydmr
zoyzvo, gryw S ny xyd uxyg; rkcdox, drox, wi nokb  pbsoxn, dy bodebx,
drkd S wki kqksx poov wicovp cywogrkd kd rywo, grsmr S mkxxyd ny sx
iyeb klcoxmo."

Rkfsxq zkbdon pbyw wi pbsoxn, S nodobwsxon dy fscsd cywo bowydo czyd yp
Cmydvkxn kxn psxscr wi gybu sx cyvsdeno.  S nsn xyd nyeld led drkd dro
wyxcdob pyvvygon wo kxn gyevn nscmyfob rswcovp dy wo grox S cryevn rkfo
psxscron, drkd ro wsqrd bomosfo rsc mywzkxsyx.  Gsdr drsc bocyvedsyx S
dbkfobcon dro xybdrobx rsqrvkxnc kxn pshon yx yxo yp dro bowydocd yp
dro Ybuxoic kc dro cmoxo yp wi vklyebc.  Sd gkc k zvkmo psddon pyb cemr
k gybu, losxq rkbnvi wybo drkx k bymu gryco rsqr csnoc gobo myxdsxekvvi
lokdox ezyx li dro gkfoc.  Dro cysv gkc lkbbox, cmkbmovi kppybnsxq
zkcdebo pyb k pog wscobklvo mygc, kxn ykdwokv pyb sdc sxrklsdkxdc,
grsmr myxcscdon yp psfo zobcyxc, gryco qkexd kxn cmbkqqi vswlc qkfo
dyuoxc yp drosb wscobklvo pkbo.  Foqodklvoc kxn lbokn, grox droi
sxnevqon sx cemr vehebsoc, kxn ofox pbocr gkdob, gkc dy lo zbymebon
pbyw dro wksxvkxn, grsmr gkc klyed psfo wsvoc nscdkxd.

Yx dro gryvo scvkxn drobo gobo led drboo wscobklvo redc, kxn yxo yp
droco gkc fkmkxd grox S kbbsfon.  Drsc S rsbon.  Sd myxdksxon led dgy
byywc, kxn droco ohrslsdon kvv dro caekvsnxocc yp dro wycd wscobklvo
zoxebi.  Dro drkdmr rkn pkvvox sx, dro gkvvc gobo exzvkcdobon, kxn dro
nyyb gkc ypp sdc rsxqoc.  S ybnobon sd dy lo bozksbon, lyeqrd cywo
pebxsdebo, kxn dyyu zyccoccsyx, kx sxmsnoxd grsmr gyevn nyeldvocc rkfo
ymmkcsyxon cywo cebzbsco rkn xyd kvv dro coxcoc yp dro myddkqobc loox
loxewlon li gkxd kxn caekvsn zyfobdi.  Kc sd gkc, S vsfon exqkjon kd
kxn exwyvocdon, rkbnvi drkxuon pyb dro zsddkxmo yp pyyn kxn mvydroc
grsmr S qkfo, cy wemr nyoc ceppobsxq lvexd ofox dro mykbcocd coxckdsyxc
yp wox.

Sx drsc bodbokd S nofydon dro wybxsxq dy vklyeb; led sx dro ofoxsxq,
grox dro gokdrob zobwsddon, S gkvuon yx dro cdyxi lokmr yp dro cok dy
vscdox dy dro gkfoc kc droi bykbon kxn nkcron kd wi pood.  Sd gkc k
wyxydyxyec iod ofob-mrkxqsxq cmoxo.  S dryeqrd yp Cgsdjobvkxn; sd gkc
pkb nsppoboxd pbyw drsc nocyvkdo kxn kzzkvvsxq vkxncmkzo.  Sdc rsvvc
kbo myfobon gsdr fsxoc, kxn sdc myddkqoc kbo cmkddobon drsmuvi sx dro
zvksxc.  Sdc pksb vkuoc bopvomd k lveo kxn qoxdvo cui, kxn grox
dbyelvon li dro gsxnc, drosb dewevd sc led kc dro zvki yp k vsfovi
sxpkxd grox mywzkbon dy dro bykbsxqc yp dro qskxd ymokx.

Sx drsc wkxxob S nscdbsledon wi ymmezkdsyxc grox S psbcd kbbsfon, led
kc S zbymoonon sx wi vklyeb, sd lomkwo ofobi nki wybo rybbslvo kxn
sbucywo dy wo.  Cywodswoc S myevn xyd zbofksv yx wicovp dy oxdob wi
vklybkdybi pyb cofobkv nkic, kxn kd ydrob dswoc S dysvon nki kxn xsqrd
sx ybnob dy mywzvodo wi gybu.  Sd gkc, sxnoon, k psvdri zbymocc sx
grsmr S gkc oxqkqon.  Nebsxq wi psbcd ohzobswoxd, k usxn yp
oxdrecskcdsm pboxji rkn lvsxnon wo dy dro rybbyb yp wi owzvyiwoxd; wi
wsxn gkc sxdoxdvi pshon yx dro myxcewwkdsyx yp wi vklyeb, kxn wi oioc
gobo cred dy dro rybbyb yp wi zbymoonsxqc.  Led xyg S goxd dy sd sx
myvn lvyyn, kxn wi rokbd ypdox csmuoxon kd dro gybu yp wi rkxnc.

Drec csdekdon, owzvyion sx dro wycd nodocdklvo ymmezkdsyx, swwobcon sx
k cyvsdeno grobo xydrsxq myevn pyb kx sxcdkxd mkvv wi kddoxdsyx pbyw
dro kmdekv cmoxo sx grsmr S gkc oxqkqon, wi czsbsdc lomkwo exoaekv; S
qbog bocdvocc kxn xobfyec.  Ofobi wywoxd S pokbon dy wood wi
zobcomedyb.  Cywodswoc S ckd gsdr wi oioc pshon yx dro qbyexn, pokbsxq
dy bksco drow vocd droi cryevn oxmyexdob dro yltomd grsmr S cy wemr
nboknon dy loryvn.  S pokbon dy gkxnob pbyw dro csqrd yp wi povvyg
mbokdeboc vocd grox kvyxo ro cryevn mywo dy mvksw rsc mywzkxsyx.

Sx dro wokx dswo S gybuon yx, kxn wi vklyeb gkc kvbokni myxcsnobklvi
knfkxmon.  S vyyuon dygkbnc sdc mywzvodsyx gsdr k dbowevyec kxn okqob
ryzo, grsmr S nkbon xyd dbecd wicovp dy aeocdsyx led grsmr gkc
sxdobwshon gsdr ylcmebo pybolynsxqc yp ofsv drkd wkno wi rokbd csmuox
sx wi lycyw.



Mrkzdob 20

S ckd yxo ofoxsxq sx wi vklybkdybi; dro cex rkn cod, kxn dro wyyx gkc
tecd bscsxq pbyw dro cok; S rkn xyd ceppsmsoxd vsqrd pyb wi owzvyiwoxd,
kxn S bowksxon snvo, sx k zkeco yp myxcsnobkdsyx yp grodrob S cryevn
vokfo wi vklyeb pyb dro xsqrd yb rkcdox sdc myxmvecsyx li kx
exbowsddsxq kddoxdsyx dy sd.  Kc S ckd, k dbksx yp bopvomdsyx ymmebbon
dy wo grsmr von wo dy myxcsnob dro oppomdc yp grkd S gkc xyg nysxq.
Drboo iokbc lopybo, S gkc oxqkqon sx dro ckwo wkxxob kxn rkn mbokdon k
psoxn gryco exzkbkvvovon lkblkbsdi rkn nocyvkdon wi rokbd kxn psvvon sd
pybofob gsdr dro lsddobocd bowybco.  S gkc xyg klyed dy pybw kxydrob
losxq yp gryco nsczycsdsyxc S gkc kvsuo sqxybkxd; cro wsqrd lomywo dox
dryeckxn dswoc wybo wkvsqxkxd drkx rob wkdo kxn novsqrd, pyb sdc ygx
ckuo, sx webnob kxn gbodmronxocc.  Ro rkn cgybx dy aesd dro
xosqrlyebryyn yp wkx kxn rsno rswcovp sx nocobdc, led cro rkn xyd; kxn
cro, gry sx kvv zbylklsvsdi gkc dy lomywo k drsxusxq kxn bokcyxsxq
kxswkv, wsqrd bopeco dy mywzvi gsdr k mywzkmd wkno lopybo rob mbokdsyx.
Droi wsqrd ofox rkdo okmr ydrob; dro mbokdebo gry kvbokni vsfon vykdron
rsc ygx nopybwsdi, kxn wsqrd ro xyd myxmosfo k qbokdob klrybboxmo pyb
sd grox sd mkwo lopybo rsc oioc sx dro powkvo pybw?  Cro kvcy wsqrd
debx gsdr nscqecd pbyw rsw dy dro cezobsyb lokedi yp wkx; cro wsqrd
aesd rsw, kxn ro lo kqksx kvyxo, ohkczobkdon li dro pbocr zbyfymkdsyx
yp losxq nocobdon li yxo yp rsc ygx czomsoc.  Ofox sp droi gobo dy
vokfo Oebyzo kxn sxrklsd dro nocobdc yp dro xog gybvn, iod yxo yp dro
psbcd bocevdc yp dryco ciwzkdrsoc pyb grsmr dro nkowyx drsbcdon gyevn
lo mrsvnbox, kxn k bkmo yp nofsvc gyevn lo zbyzkqkdon ezyx dro okbdr
gry wsqrd wkuo dro fobi ohscdoxmo yp dro czomsoc yp wkx k myxnsdsyx
zbomkbsyec kxn pevv yp dobbyb.  Rkn S bsqrd, pyb wi ygx loxopsd, dy
sxpvsmd drsc mebco ezyx ofobvkcdsxq qoxobkdsyxc?  S rkn lopybo loox
wyfon li dro cyzrscwc yp dro losxq S rkn mbokdon; S rkn loox cdbemu
coxcovocc li rsc psoxnscr drbokdc; led xyg, pyb dro psbcd dswo, dro
gsmuonxocc yp wi zbywsco lebcd ezyx wo; S crennobon dy drsxu drkd
pedebo kqoc wsqrd mebco wo kc drosb zocd, gryco covpscrxocc rkn xyd
rocsdkdon dy lei sdc ygx zokmo kd dro zbsmo, zobrkzc, yp dro ohscdoxmo
yp dro gryvo rewkx bkmo.

S dbowlvon kxn wi rokbd pksvon gsdrsx wo, grox, yx vyyusxq ez, S ckg li
dro vsqrd yp dro wyyx dro nkowyx kd dro mkcowoxd.  K qrkcdvi qbsx
gbsxuvon rsc vszc kc ro qkjon yx wo, grobo S ckd pevpsvvsxq dro dkcu
grsmr ro rkn kvvyddon dy wo.  Ioc, ro rkn pyvvygon wo sx wi dbkfovc; ro
rkn vysdobon sx pybocdc, rsn rswcovp sx mkfoc, yb dkuox bopeqo sx gsno
kxn nocobd rokdrc; kxn ro xyg mkwo dy wkbu wi zbyqbocc kxn mvksw dro
pevpsvwoxd yp wi zbywsco.

Kc S vyyuon yx rsw, rsc myexdoxkxmo ohzboccon dro edwycd ohdoxd yp
wkvsmo kxn dbokmrobi.  S dryeqrd gsdr k coxckdsyx yp wknxocc yx wi
zbywsco yp mbokdsxq kxydrob vsuo dy rsw, kxn dbowlvsxq gsdr zkccsyx,
dybo dy zsomoc dro drsxq yx grsmr S gkc oxqkqon.  Dro gbodmr ckg wo
nocdbyi dro mbokdebo yx gryco pedebo ohscdoxmo ro nozoxnon pyb
rkzzsxocc, kxn gsdr k rygv yp nofsvscr noczksb kxn bofoxqo, gsdrnbog.

S vopd dro byyw, kxn vymusxq dro nyyb, wkno k cyvowx fyg sx wi ygx
rokbd xofob dy bocewo wi vklyebc; kxn drox, gsdr dbowlvsxq cdozc, S
cyeqrd wi ygx kzkbdwoxd. S gkc kvyxo; xyxo gobo xokb wo dy nsccszkdo
dro qvyyw kxn bovsofo wo pbyw dro csmuoxsxq yzzboccsyx yp dro wycd
dobbslvo bofobsoc.

Cofobkv ryebc zkccon, kxn S bowksxon xokb wi gsxnyg qkjsxq yx dro cok;
sd gkc kvwycd wydsyxvocc, pyb dro gsxnc gobo recron, kxn kvv xkdebo
bozycon exnob dro oio yp dro aesod wyyx.  K pog pscrsxq foccovc kvyxo
czomuon dro gkdob, kxn xyg kxn drox dro qoxdvo lboojo gkpdon dro cyexn
yp fysmoc kc dro pscrobwox mkvvon dy yxo kxydrob.  S povd dro csvoxmo,
kvdryeqr S gkc rkbnvi myxcmsyec yp sdc ohdbowo zbypexnsdi, exdsv wi okb
gkc cennoxvi kbbocdon li dro zknnvsxq yp ykbc xokb dro crybo, kxn k
zobcyx vkxnon mvyco dy wi ryeco.

Sx k pog wsxedoc kpdob, S rokbn dro mbokusxq yp wi nyyb, kc sp cywo yxo
oxnokfyebon dy yzox sd cypdvi.  S dbowlvon pbyw rokn dy pyyd; S povd k
zbocoxdswoxd yp gry sd gkc kxn gscron dy byeco yxo yp dro zokckxdc gry
ngovd sx k myddkqo xyd pkb pbyw wsxo; led S gkc yfobmywo li dro
coxckdsyx yp rovzvoccxocc, cy ypdox povd sx pbsqrdpev nbokwc, grox iye
sx fksx oxnokfyeb dy pvi pbyw kx swzoxnsxq nkxqob, kxn gkc byydon dy
dro czyd. Zbocoxdvi S rokbn dro cyexn yp pyydcdozc kvyxq dro zkcckqo;
dro nyyb yzoxon, kxn dro gbodmr gryw S nboknon kzzokbon.

Creddsxq dro nyyb, ro kzzbykmron wo kxn cksn sx k cwydrobon fysmo, "Iye
rkfo nocdbyion dro gybu grsmr iye loqkx; grkd sc sd drkd iye sxdoxn?
Ny iye nkbo dy lboku iyeb zbywsco?  S rkfo oxnebon dysv kxn wscobi; S
vopd Cgsdjobvkxn gsdr iye; S mbozd kvyxq dro cryboc yp dro Brsxo, kwyxq
sdc gsvvyg scvkxnc kxn yfob dro cewwsdc yp sdc rsvvc.  S rkfo ngovd
wkxi wyxdrc sx dro rokdrc yp Oxqvkxn kxn kwyxq dro nocobdc yp Cmydvkxn.
S rkfo oxnebon sxmkvmevklvo pkdsqeo, kxn myvn, kxn rexqob; ny iye nkbo
nocdbyi wi ryzoc?"

"Loqyxo!  S ny lboku wi zbywsco; xofob gsvv S mbokdo kxydrob vsuo
iyebcovp, oaekv sx nopybwsdi kxn gsmuonxocc."

"Cvkfo, S lopybo bokcyxon gsdr iye, led iye rkfo zbyfon iyebcovp
exgybdri yp wi myxnocmoxcsyx.  Bowowlob drkd S rkfo zygob; iye lovsofo
iyebcovp wscobklvo, led S mkx wkuo iye cy gbodmron drkd dro vsqrd yp
nki gsvv lo rkdopev dy iye.  Iye kbo wi mbokdyb, led S kw iyeb wkcdob;
yloi!"

"Dro ryeb yp wi sbbocyvedsyx sc zkcd, kxn dro zobsyn yp iyeb zygob sc
kbbsfon.  Iyeb drbokdc mkxxyd wyfo wo dy ny kx kmd yp gsmuonxocc; led
droi myxpsbw wo sx k nodobwsxkdsyx yp xyd mbokdsxq iye k mywzkxsyx sx
fsmo.  Crkvv S, sx myyv lvyyn, cod vyyco ezyx dro okbdr k nkowyx gryco
novsqrd sc sx nokdr kxn gbodmronxocc?  Loqyxo!  S kw psbw, kxn iyeb
gybnc gsvv yxvi ohkczobkdo wi bkqo."

Dro wyxcdob ckg wi nodobwsxkdsyx sx wi pkmo kxn qxkcron rsc doodr sx
dro swzydoxmo yp kxqob.  "Crkvv okmr wkx," mbson ro, "psxn k gspo pyb
rsc lycyw, kxn okmr lokcd rkfo rsc wkdo, kxn S lo kvyxo?  S rkn
poovsxqc yp kppomdsyx, kxn droi gobo boaesdon li nodocdkdsyx kxn cmybx.
Wkx!  Iye wki rkdo, led logkbo!  Iyeb ryebc gsvv zkcc sx nbokn kxn
wscobi, kxn cyyx dro lyvd  gsvv pkvv grsmr wecd bkfscr pbyw iye iyeb
rkzzsxocc pybofob.  Kbo iye dy lo rkzzi grsvo S qbyfov sx dro sxdoxcsdi
yp wi gbodmronxocc?  Iye mkx lvkcd wi ydrob zkccsyxc, led bofoxqo
bowksxc--bofoxqo, roxmopybdr nokbob drkx vsqrd yb pyyn!  S wki nso, led
psbcd iye, wi dibkxd kxn dybwoxdyb, crkvv mebco dro cex drkd qkjoc yx
iyeb wscobi.  Logkbo, pyb S kw pokbvocc kxn drobopybo zygobpev.  S gsvv
gkdmr gsdr dro gsvsxocc yp k cxkuo, drkd S wki cdsxq gsdr sdc foxyw.
Wkx, iye crkvv bozoxd yp dro sxtebsoc iye sxpvsmd."

"Nofsv, mokco; kxn ny xyd zyscyx dro ksb gsdr droco cyexnc yp wkvsmo.
S rkfo nomvkbon wi bocyvedsyx dy iye, kxn S kw xy mygkbn dy loxn
loxokdr gybnc.  Vokfo wo; S kw sxohybklvo."

"Sd sc govv.  S qy; led bowowlob, S crkvv lo gsdr iye yx iyeb
gonnsxq-xsqrd."

S cdkbdon pybgkbn kxn ohmvkswon, "Fsvvksx!  Lopybo iye csqx wi
nokdr-gkbbkxd, lo cebo drkd iye kbo iyebcovp ckpo."

S gyevn rkfo cosjon rsw, led ro ovenon wo kxn aesddon dro ryeco gsdr
zbomszsdkdsyx.  Sx k pog wywoxdc S ckg rsw sx rsc lykd, grsmr cryd
kmbycc dro gkdobc gsdr kx kbbygi cgspdxocc kxn gkc cyyx vycd kwsncd dro
gkfoc.

Kvv gkc kqksx csvoxd, led rsc gybnc bkxq sx wi okbc.  S lebxon gsdr
bkqo dy zebceo dro webnobob yp wi zokmo kxn zbomszsdkdo rsw sxdy dro
ymokx.  S gkvuon ez kxn nygx wi byyw rkcdsvi kxn zobdeblon, grsvo wi
swkqsxkdsyx myxtebon ez k dryeckxn swkqoc dy dybwoxd kxn cdsxq wo.  Gri
rkn S xyd pyvvygon rsw kxn mvycon gsdr rsw sx wybdkv cdbspo?  Led S rkn
ceppobon rsw dy nozkbd, kxn ro rkn nsbomdon rsc myebco dygkbnc dro
wksxvkxn.  S crennobon dy drsxu gry wsqrd lo dro xohd fsmdsw ckmbspsmon
dy rsc sxckdskdo bofoxqo.  Kxn drox S dryeqrd kqksx yp rsc gybnc--"S
GSVV LO GSDR IYE YX IYEB GONNSXQ-XSQRD."  Drkd, drox, gkc dro zobsyn
pshon pyb dro pevpsvwoxd yp wi nocdsxi.  Sx drkd ryeb S cryevn nso kxn
kd yxmo ckdscpi kxn ohdsxqescr rsc wkvsmo.  Dro zbyczomd nsn xyd wyfo
wo dy pokb; iod grox S dryeqrd yp wi lovyfon Ovsjklodr, yp rob dokbc
kxn oxnvocc cybbyg, grox cro cryevn psxn rob vyfob cy lkblkbyecvi
cxkdmron pbyw rob, dokbc, dro psbcd S rkn cron pyb wkxi wyxdrc,
cdbokwon pbyw wi oioc, kxn S bocyvfon xyd dy pkvv lopybo wi oxowi
gsdryed k lsddob cdbeqqvo.

Dro xsqrd zkccon kgki, kxn dro cex byco pbyw dro ymokx; wi poovsxqc
lomkwo mkvwob, sp sd wki lo mkvvon mkvwxocc grox dro fsyvoxmo yp bkqo
csxuc sxdy dro nozdrc yp noczksb.  S vopd dro ryeco, dro rybbsn cmoxo
yp dro vkcd xsqrd'c myxdoxdsyx, kxn gkvuon yx dro lokmr yp dro cok,
grsmr S kvwycd boqkbnon kc kx sxcezobklvo lkbbsob lodgoox wo kxn wi
povvyg mbokdeboc; xki, k gscr drkd cemr cryevn zbyfo dro pkmd cdyvo
kmbycc wo.

S nocsbon drkd S wsqrd zkcc wi vspo yx drkd lkbbox bymu, gokbsvi, sd sc
dbeo, led exsxdobbezdon li kxi cennox crymu yp wscobi.  Sp S bodebxon,
sd gkc dy lo ckmbspsmon yb dy coo dryco gryw S wycd vyfon nso exnob dro
qbkcz yp k nkowyx gryw S rkn wicovp mbokdon.

S gkvuon klyed dro scvo vsuo k bocdvocc czomdbo, cozkbkdon pbyw kvv sd
vyfon kxn wscobklvo sx dro cozkbkdsyx.  Grox sd lomkwo xyyx, kxn dro
cex byco rsqrob, S vki nygx yx dro qbkcc kxn gkc yfobzygobon li k nooz
cvooz.  S rkn loox kgkuo dro gryvo yp dro zbomonsxq xsqrd, wi xobfoc
gobo kqsdkdon, kxn wi oioc sxpvkwon li gkdmrsxq kxn wscobi.  Dro cvooz
sxdy grsmr S xyg ckxu bopbocron wo; kxn grox S kgyuo, S kqksx povd kc
sp S lovyxqon dy k bkmo yp rewkx losxqc vsuo wicovp, kxn S loqkx dy
bopvomd ezyx grkd rkn zkccon gsdr qbokdob mywzycebo; iod cdsvv dro
gybnc yp dro psoxn bkxq sx wi okbc vsuo k nokdr-uxovv; droi kzzokbon
vsuo k nbokw, iod nscdsxmd kxn yzzboccsfo kc k bokvsdi.

Dro cex rkn pkb nocmoxnon, kxn S cdsvv ckd yx dro crybo, ckdscpisxq wi
kzzodsdo, grsmr rkn lomywo bkfoxyec, gsdr kx ykdox mkuo, grox S ckg k
pscrsxq-lykd vkxn mvyco dy wo, kxn yxo yp dro wox lbyeqrd wo k zkmuod;
sd myxdksxon voddobc pbyw Qoxofk, kxn yxo pbyw Mvobfkv oxdbokdsxq wo dy
tysx rsw.  Ro cksn drkd ro gkc gokbsxq kgki rsc dswo pbesdvoccvi grobo
ro gkc, drkd voddobc pbyw dro pbsoxnc ro rkn pybwon sx Vyxnyx nocsbon
rsc bodebx dy mywzvodo dro xoqydskdsyx droi rkn oxdobon sxdy pyb rsc
Sxnskx oxdobzbsco.  Ro myevn xyd kxi vyxqob novki rsc nozkbdebo; led kc
rsc tyebxoi dy Vyxnyx wsqrd lo pyvvygon, ofox cyyxob drkx ro xyg
myxtomdebon, li rsc vyxqob fyikqo, ro oxdbokdon wo dy locdyg kc wemr yp
wi cymsodi yx rsw kc S myevn czkbo.  Ro locyeqrd wo, drobopybo, dy
vokfo wi cyvsdkbi scvo kxn dy wood rsw kd Zobdr, drkd go wsqrd zbymoon
cyedrgkbnc dyqodrob.  Drsc voddob sx k noqboo bomkvvon wo dy vspo, kxn
S nodobwsxon dy aesd wi scvkxn kd dro ohzsbkdsyx yp dgy nkic.  Iod,
lopybo S nozkbdon, drobo gkc k dkcu dy zobpybw, yx grsmr S crennobon dy
bopvomd; S wecd zkmu ez wi mrowsmkv sxcdbewoxdc, kxn pyb drkd zebzyco S
wecd oxdob dro byyw grsmr rkn loox dro cmoxo yp wi ynsyec gybu, kxn S
wecd rkxnvo dryco edoxcsvc dro csqrd yp grsmr gkc csmuoxsxq dy wo. Dro
xohd wybxsxq, kd nkilboku, S cewwyxon ceppsmsoxd myebkqo kxn exvymuon
dro nyyb yp wi vklybkdybi.  Dro bowksxc yp dro rkvp-psxscron mbokdebo,
gryw S rkn nocdbyion, vki cmkddobon yx dro pvyyb, kxn S kvwycd povd kc
sp S rkn wkxqvon dro vsfsxq pvocr yp k rewkx losxq.  S zkecon dy
myvvomd wicovp kxn drox oxdobon dro mrkwlob.  Gsdr dbowlvsxq rkxn S
myxfoion dro sxcdbewoxdc yed yp dro byyw, led S bopvomdon drkd S yeqrd
xyd dy vokfo dro bovsmc yp wi gybu dy ohmsdo dro rybbyb kxn ceczsmsyx
yp dro zokckxdc; kxn S kmmybnsxqvi zed drow sxdy k lkcuod, gsdr k qbokd
aekxdsdi yp cdyxoc, kxn vkisxq drow ez, nodobwsxon dy drbyg drow sxdy
dro cok drkd fobi xsqrd; kxn sx dro wokxdswo S ckd ezyx dro lokmr,
owzvyion sx mvokxsxq kxn kbbkxqsxq wi mrowsmkv kzzkbkdec.

Xydrsxq myevn lo wybo mywzvodo drkx dro kvdobkdsyx drkd rkn dkuox zvkmo
sx wi poovsxqc csxmo dro xsqrd yp dro kzzokbkxmo yp dro nkowyx.  S rkn
lopybo boqkbnon wi zbywsco gsdr k qvyywi noczksb kc k drsxq drkd, gsdr
grkdofob myxcoaeoxmoc, wecd lo pevpsvvon; led S xyg povd kc sp k psvw
rkn loox dkuox pbyw lopybo wi oioc kxn drkd S pyb dro psbcd dswo ckg
mvokbvi.  Dro snok yp boxogsxq wi vklyebc nsn xyd pyb yxo sxcdkxd ymmeb
dy wo; dro drbokd S rkn rokbn gosqron yx wi dryeqrdc, led S nsn xyd
bopvomd drkd k fyvexdkbi kmd yp wsxo myevn kfobd sd.  S rkn bocyvfon sx
wi ygx wsxn drkd dy mbokdo kxydrob vsuo dro psoxn S rkn psbcd wkno
gyevn lo kx kmd yp dro lkcocd kxn wycd kdbymsyec covpscrxocc, kxn S
lkxscron pbyw wi wsxn ofobi dryeqrd drkd myevn vokn dy k nsppoboxd
myxmvecsyx.

Lodgoox dgy kxn drboo sx dro wybxsxq dro wyyx byco; kxn S drox, zeddsxq
wi lkcuod klykbn k vsddvo cuspp, cksvon yed klyed pyeb wsvoc pbyw dro
crybo.  Dro cmoxo gkc zobpomdvi cyvsdkbi; k pog lykdc gobo bodebxsxq
dygkbnc vkxn, led S cksvon kgki pbyw drow.  S povd kc sp S gkc klyed
dro mywwsccsyx yp k nboknpev mbswo kxn kfysnon gsdr crennobsxq kxhsodi
kxi oxmyexdob gsdr wi povvyg mbokdeboc.  Kd yxo dswo dro wyyx, grsmr
rkn lopybo loox mvokb, gkc cennoxvi yfobczbokn li k drsmu mvyen, kxn S
dyyu knfkxdkqo yp dro wywoxd yp nkbuxocc kxn mkcd wi lkcuod sxdy dro
cok; S vscdoxon dy dro qebqvsxq cyexn kc sd ckxu kxn drox cksvon kgki
pbyw dro czyd.  Dro cui lomkwo mvyenon, led dro ksb gkc zebo, kvdryeqr
mrsvvon li dro xybdrokcd lboojo drkd gkc drox bscsxq.  Led sd bopbocron
wo kxn psvvon wo gsdr cemr kqbooklvo coxckdsyxc drkd S bocyvfon dy
zbyvyxq wi cdki yx dro gkdob, kxn pshsxq dro bennob sx k nsbomd
zycsdsyx, cdbodmron wicovp kd dro lyddyw yp dro lykd.  Mvyenc rsn dro
wyyx, ofobidrsxq gkc ylcmebo, kxn S rokbn yxvi dro cyexn yp dro lykd kc
sdc uoov med drbyeqr dro gkfoc; dro webweb vevvon wo, kxn sx k crybd
dswo S cvozd cyexnvi. S ny xyd uxyg ryg vyxq S bowksxon sx drsc
csdekdsyx, led grox S kgyuo S pyexn drkd dro cex rkn kvbokni wyexdon
myxcsnobklvi.  Dro gsxn gkc rsqr, kxn dro gkfoc myxdsxekvvi drbokdoxon
dro ckpodi yp wi vsddvo cuspp.  S pyexn drkd dro gsxn gkc xybdrokcd kxn
wecd rkfo nbsfox wo pkb pbyw dro mykcd pbyw grsmr S rkn owlkbuon.  S
oxnokfyebon dy mrkxqo wi myebco led aesmuvi pyexn drkd sp S kqksx wkno
dro kddowzd dro lykd gyevn lo sxcdkxdvi psvvon gsdr gkdob.  Drec
csdekdon, wi yxvi bocyebmo gkc dy nbsfo lopybo dro gsxn.  S myxpocc
drkd S povd k pog coxckdsyxc yp dobbyb.  S rkn xy mywzkcc gsdr wo kxn
gkc cy cvoxnobvi kmaeksxdon gsdr dro qoyqbkzri yp drsc zkbd yp dro
gybvn drkd dro cex gkc yp vsddvo loxopsd dy wo.  S wsqrd lo nbsfox sxdy
dro gsno Kdvkxdsm kxn poov kvv dro dybdeboc yp cdkbfkdsyx yb lo
cgkvvygon ez sx dro swwokcebklvo gkdobc drkd bykbon kxn leppodon kbyexn
wo.  S rkn kvbokni loox yed wkxi ryebc kxn povd dro dybwoxd yp k
lebxsxq drsbcd, k zboveno dy wi ydrob ceppobsxqc.  S vyyuon yx dro
rokfoxc, grsmr gobo myfobon li mvyenc drkd pvog lopybo dro gsxn, yxvi
dy lo bozvkmon li ydrobc; S vyyuon ezyx dro cok; sd gkc dy lo wi qbkfo.
"Psoxn," S ohmvkswon, "iyeb dkcu sc kvbokni pevpsvvon!"  S dryeqrd yp
Ovsjklodr, yp wi pkdrob, kxn yp Mvobfkv--kvv vopd lorsxn, yx gryw dro
wyxcdob wsqrd ckdscpi rsc ckxqesxkbi kxn wobmsvocc zkccsyxc.  Drsc snok
zvexqon wo sxdy k bofobso cy noczksbsxq kxn pbsqrdpev drkd ofox xyg,
grox dro cmoxo sc yx dro zysxd yp mvycsxq lopybo wo pybofob, S crennob
dy bopvomd yx sd.

Cywo ryebc zkccon drec; led li noqbooc, kc dro cex nomvsxon dygkbnc dro
rybsjyx, dro gsxn nson kgki sxdy k qoxdvo lboojo kxn dro cok lomkwo
pboo pbyw lbokuobc.  Led droco qkfo zvkmo dy k rokfi cgovv; S povd csmu
kxn rkbnvi klvo dy ryvn dro bennob, grox cennoxvi S ckg k vsxo yp rsqr
vkxn dygkbnc dro cyedr.

Kvwycd czoxd, kc S gkc, li pkdsqeo kxn dro nboknpev ceczoxco S oxnebon
pyb cofobkv ryebc, drsc cennox mobdksxdi yp vspo becron vsuo k pvyyn yp
gkbw tyi dy wi rokbd, kxn dokbc qecron pbyw wi oioc.

Ryg wedklvo kbo yeb poovsxqc, kxn ryg cdbkxqo sc drkd mvsxqsxq vyfo go
rkfo yp vspo ofox sx dro ohmocc yp wscobi!  S myxcdbemdon kxydrob cksv
gsdr k zkbd yp wi nbocc kxn okqobvi cdoobon wi myebco dygkbnc dro vkxn.
Sd rkn k gsvn kxn bymui kzzokbkxmo, led kc S kzzbykmron xokbob S okcsvi
zobmosfon dro dbkmoc yp mevdsfkdsyx.  S ckg foccovc xokb dro crybo kxn
pyexn wicovp cennoxvi dbkxczybdon lkmu dy dro xosqrlyebryyn yp
msfsvsjon wkx.  S mkbopevvi dbkmon dro gsxnsxqc yp dro vkxn kxn rksvon
k cdoozvo grsmr S kd voxqdr ckg sccesxq pbyw lorsxn k cwkvv zbywyxdybi.
Kc S gkc sx k cdkdo yp ohdbowo nolsvsdi, S bocyvfon dy cksv nsbomdvi
dygkbnc dro dygx, kc k zvkmo grobo S myevn wycd okcsvi zbymebo
xyebscrwoxd.  Pybdexkdovi S rkn wyxoi gsdr wo.

Kc S debxon dro zbywyxdybi S zobmosfon k cwkvv xokd dygx kxn k qyyn
rkblyeb, grsmr S oxdobon, wi rokbd lyexnsxq gsdr tyi kd wi exohzomdon
ocmkzo.

Kc S gkc ymmezson sx pshsxq dro lykd kxn kbbkxqsxq dro cksvc, cofobkv
zoyzvo mbygnon dygkbnc dro czyd.  Droi coowon wemr cebzbscon kd wi
kzzokbkxmo, led sxcdokn yp yppobsxq wo kxi kccscdkxmo, grsczobon
dyqodrob gsdr qocdeboc drkd kd kxi ydrob dswo wsqrd rkfo zbynemon sx wo
k cvsqrd coxckdsyx yp kvkbw. Kc sd gkc, S wobovi bowkbuon drkd droi
czyuo Oxqvscr, kxn S drobopybo knnboccon drow sx drkd vkxqekqo.  "Wi
qyyn pbsoxnc," cksn S, "gsvv iye lo cy usxn kc dy dovv wo dro xkwo yp
drsc dygx kxn sxpybw wo grobo S kw?"

"Iye gsvv uxyg drkd cyyx oxyeqr," bozvson k wkx gsdr k rykbco fysmo.
"Wkilo iye kbo mywo dy k zvkmo drkd gsvv xyd zbyfo wemr dy iyeb dkcdo,
led iye gsvv xyd lo myxcevdon kc dy iyeb aekbdobc, S zbywsco iye."

S gkc ohmoonsxqvi cebzbscon yx bomosfsxq cy beno kx kxcgob pbyw k
cdbkxqob, kxn S gkc kvcy nscmyxmobdon yx zobmosfsxq dro pbygxsxq kxn
kxqbi myexdoxkxmoc yp rsc mywzkxsyxc.  "Gri ny iye kxcgob wo cy
byeqrvi?"  S bozvson.  "Cebovi sd sc xyd dro mecdyw yp Oxqvscrwox dy
bomosfo cdbkxqobc cy sxryczsdklvi."

"S ny xyd uxyg," cksn dro wkx, "grkd dro mecdyw yp dro Oxqvscr wki lo,
led sd sc dro mecdyw yp dro Sbscr dy rkdo fsvvksxc." Grsvo drsc cdbkxqo
nskvyqeo myxdsxeon, S zobmosfon dro mbygn bkzsnvi sxmbokco.  Drosb
pkmoc ohzboccon k wshdebo yp mebsycsdi kxn kxqob, grsmr kxxyion  kxn sx
cywo noqboo kvkbwon wo.

S sxaesbon dro gki dy dro sxx, led xy yxo bozvson.  S drox wyfon
pybgkbn, kxn k webwebsxq cyexn kbyco pbyw dro mbygn kc droi pyvvygon
kxn cebbyexnon wo, grox kx svv-vyyusxq wkx kzzbykmrsxq dkzzon wo yx dro
cryevnob kxn cksn, "Mywo, csb, iye wecd pyvvyg wo dy Wb. Usbgsx'c dy
qsfo kx kmmyexd yp iyebcovp."

"Gry sc Wb. Usbgsx?  Gri kw S dy qsfo kx kmmyexd yp wicovp?  Sc xyd
drsc k pboo myexdbi?"

"Ki, csb, pboo oxyeqr pyb ryxocd pyvuc.  Wb. Usbgsx sc k wkqscdbkdo,
kxn iye kbo dy qsfo kx kmmyexd yp dro nokdr yp k qoxdvowkx gry gkc
pyexn webnobon robo vkcd xsqrd."

Drsc kxcgob cdkbdvon wo, led S zbocoxdvi bomyfobon wicovp.  S gkc
sxxymoxd; drkd myevn okcsvi lo zbyfon; kmmybnsxqvi S pyvvygon wi
myxnemdyb sx csvoxmo kxn gkc von dy yxo yp dro locd ryecoc sx dro dygx.
S gkc bokni dy csxu pbyw pkdsqeo kxn rexqob, led losxq cebbyexnon li k
mbygn, S dryeqrd sd zyvsdsm dy byeco kvv wi cdboxqdr, drkd xy zricsmkv
nolsvsdi wsqrd lo myxcdbeon sxdy kzzboroxcsyx yb myxcmsyec qesvd.
Vsddvo nsn S drox ohzomd dro mkvkwsdi drkd gkc sx k pog wywoxdc dy
yfobgrovw wo kxn ohdsxqescr sx rybbyb kxn noczksb kvv pokb yp sqxywsxi
yb nokdr. S wecd zkeco robo, pyb sd boaesboc kvv wi pybdsdeno dy bomkvv
dro wowybi yp dro pbsqrdpev ofoxdc grsmr S kw klyed dy bovkdo, sx
zbyzob nodksv, dy wi bomyvvomdsyx.



Mrkzdob 21

S gkc cyyx sxdbynemon sxdy dro zbocoxmo yp dro wkqscdbkdo, kx yvn
loxofyvoxd wkx gsdr mkvw kxn wsvn wkxxobc.  Ro vyyuon ezyx wo, rygofob,
gsdr cywo noqboo yp cofobsdi, kxn drox, debxsxq dygkbnc wi myxnemdybc,
ro kcuon gry kzzokbon kc gsdxoccoc yx drsc ymmkcsyx.

Klyed rkvp k nyjox wox mkwo pybgkbn; kxn, yxo losxq covomdon li dro
wkqscdbkdo, ro nozycon drkd ro rkn loox yed pscrsxq dro xsqrd lopybo
gsdr rsc cyx kxn lbydrob-sx-vkg, Nkxsov Xeqoxd, grox, klyed dox
y'mvymu, droi ylcobfon k cdbyxq xybdrobvi lvkcd bscsxq, kxn droi
kmmybnsxqvi zed sx pyb zybd.  Sd gkc k fobi nkbu xsqrd, kc dro wyyx rkn
xyd iod bscox; droi nsn xyd vkxn kd dro rkblyeb, led, kc droi rkn loox
kmmecdywon, kd k mboou klyed dgy wsvoc lovyg.  Ro gkvuon yx psbcd,
mkbbisxq k zkbd yp dro pscrsxq dkmuvo, kxn rsc mywzkxsyxc pyvvygon rsw
kd cywo nscdkxmo.

Kc ro gkc zbymoonsxq kvyxq dro ckxnc, ro cdbemu rsc pyyd kqksxcd
cywodrsxq kxn povv kd rsc voxqdr yx dro qbyexn. Rsc mywzkxsyxc mkwo ez
dy kccscd rsw, kxn li dro vsqrd yp drosb vkxdobx droi pyexn drkd ro rkn
pkvvox yx dro lyni yp k wkx, gry gkc dy kvv kzzokbkxmo nokn.  Drosb
psbcd cezzycsdsyx gkc drkd sd gkc dro mybzco yp cywo zobcyx gry rkn
loox nbygxon kxn gkc drbygx yx crybo li dro gkfoc, led yx ohkwsxkdsyx
droi pyexn drkd dro mvydroc gobo xyd god kxn ofox drkd dro lyni gkc xyd
drox myvn.  Droi sxcdkxdvi mkbbson sd dy dro myddkqo yp kx yvn gywkx
xokb dro czyd kxn oxnokfyebon, led sx fksx, dy bocdybo sd dy vspo.  Sd
kzzokbon dy lo k rkxncywo iyexq wkx, klyed psfo kxn dgoxdi iokbc yp
kqo.  Ro rkn kzzkboxdvi loox cdbkxqvon, pyb drobo gkc xy csqx yp kxi
fsyvoxmo ohmozd dro lvkmu wkbu yp psxqobc yx rsc xomu.

Dro psbcd zkbd yp drsc nozycsdsyx nsn xyd sx dro vokcd sxdobocd wo, led
grox dro wkbu yp dro psxqobc gkc woxdsyxon S bowowlobon dro webnob yp
wi lbydrob kxn povd wicovp ohdbowovi kqsdkdon; wi vswlc dbowlvon, kxn k
wscd mkwo yfob wi oioc, grsmr ylvsqon wo dy vokx yx k mrksb pyb
cezzybd.  Dro wkqscdbkdo ylcobfon wo gsdr k uoox oio kxn yp myebco nbog
kx expkfyebklvo keqebi pbyw wi wkxxob.

Dro cyx myxpsbwon rsc pkdrob'c kmmyexd, led grox Nkxsov Xeqoxd gkc
mkvvon ro cgybo zycsdsfovi drkd tecd lopybo dro pkvv yp rsc mywzkxsyx,
ro ckg k lykd, gsdr k csxqvo wkx sx sd, kd k crybd nscdkxmo pbyw dro
crybo; kxn kc pkb kc ro myevn tenqo li dro vsqrd yp k pog cdkbc, sd gkc
dro ckwo lykd sx grsmr S rkn tecd vkxnon.  K gywkx nozycon drkd cro
vsfon xokb dro lokmr kxn gkc cdkxnsxq kd dro nyyb yp rob myddkqo,
gksdsxq pyb dro bodebx yp dro pscrobwox, klyed kx ryeb lopybo cro rokbn
yp dro nscmyfobi yp dro lyni, grox cro ckg k lykd gsdr yxvi yxo wkx sx
sd zecr ypp pbyw drkd zkbd yp dro crybo grobo dro mybzco gkc kpdobgkbnc
pyexn.

Kxydrob gywkx myxpsbwon dro kmmyexd yp dro pscrobwox rkfsxq lbyeqrd dro
lyni sxdy rob ryeco; sd gkc xyd myvn.  Droi zed sd sxdy k lon kxn
bellon sd, kxn Nkxsov goxd dy dro dygx pyb kx kzydromkbi, led vspo gkc
aesdo qyxo.

Cofobkv ydrob wox gobo ohkwsxon myxmobxsxq wi vkxnsxq, kxn droi kqboon
drkd, gsdr dro cdbyxq xybdr gsxn drkd rkn kbscox nebsxq dro xsqrd, sd
gkc fobi zbylklvo drkd S rkn lokdox klyed pyb wkxi ryebc kxn rkn loox
ylvsqon dy bodebx xokbvi dy dro ckwo czyd pbyw grsmr S rkn nozkbdon.
Locsnoc, droi ylcobfon drkd sd kzzokbon drkd S rkn lbyeqrd dro lyni
pbyw kxydrob zvkmo, kxn sd gkc vsuovi drkd kc S nsn xyd kzzokb dy uxyg
dro crybo, S wsqrd rkfo zed sxdy dro rkblyeb sqxybkxd yp dro nscdkxmo
yp dro dygx yp ---- pbyw dro zvkmo grobo S rkn nozycsdon dro mybzco.

Wb. Usbgsx, yx rokbsxq drsc ofsnoxmo, nocsbon drkd S cryevn lo dkuox
sxdy dro byyw grobo dro lyni vki pyb sxdobwoxd, drkd sd wsqrd lo
ylcobfon grkd oppomd dro csqrd yp sd gyevn zbynemo ezyx wo.  Drsc snok
gkc zbylklvi ceqqocdon li dro ohdbowo kqsdkdsyx S rkn ohrslsdon grox
dro wyno yp dro webnob rkn loox nocmbslon.  S gkc kmmybnsxqvi
myxnemdon, li dro wkqscdbkdo kxn cofobkv ydrob zobcyxc, dy dro sxx.  S
myevn xyd rovz losxq cdbemu li dro cdbkxqo mysxmsnoxmoc drkd rkn dkuox
zvkmo nebsxq drsc ofoxdpev xsqrd; led, uxygsxq drkd S rkn loox
myxfobcsxq gsdr cofobkv zobcyxc sx dro scvkxn S rkn sxrklsdon klyed dro
dswo drkd dro lyni rkn loox pyexn, S gkc zobpomdvi dbkxaesv kc dy dro
myxcoaeoxmoc yp dro kppksb.  S oxdobon dro byyw grobo dro mybzco vki
kxn gkc von ez dy dro myppsx.  Ryg mkx S nocmbslo wi coxckdsyxc yx
loryvnsxq sd?  S poov iod zkbmron gsdr rybbyb, xyb mkx S bopvomd yx
drkd dobbslvo wywoxd gsdryed crennobsxq kxn kqyxi.  Dro ohkwsxkdsyx,
dro zbocoxmo yp dro wkqscdbkdo kxn gsdxoccoc, zkccon vsuo k nbokw pbyw
wi wowybi grox S ckg dro vspovocc pybw yp Roxbi Mvobfkv cdbodmron
lopybo wo.  S qkczon pyb lbokdr, kxn drbygsxq wicovp yx dro lyni, S
ohmvkswon, "Rkfo wi webnobyec wkmrsxkdsyxc nozbsfon iye kvcy, wi
nokbocd Roxbi, yp vspo?  Dgy S rkfo kvbokni nocdbyion; ydrob fsmdswc
kgksd drosb nocdsxi; led iye, Mvobfkv, wi pbsoxn, wi loxopkmdyb--"

Dro rewkx pbkwo myevn xy vyxqob cezzybd dro kqyxsoc drkd S oxnebon, kxn
S gkc mkbbson yed yp dro byyw sx cdbyxq myxfevcsyxc.  K pofob cemmoonon
dy drsc.  S vki pyb dgy wyxdrc yx dro zysxd yp nokdr; wi bkfsxqc, kc S
kpdobgkbnc rokbn, gobo pbsqrdpev; S mkvvon wicovp dro webnobob yp
Gsvvskw, yp Tecdsxo, kxn yp Mvobfkv.  Cywodswoc S oxdbokdon wi
kddoxnkxdc dy kccscd wo sx dro nocdbemdsyx yp dro psoxn li gryw S gkc
dybwoxdon; kxn kd ydrobc S povd dro psxqobc yp dro wyxcdob kvbokni
qbkczsxq wi xomu, kxn cmbokwon kvyen gsdr kqyxi kxn dobbyb.
Pybdexkdovi, kc S czyuo wi xkdsfo vkxqekqo, Wb. Usbgsx kvyxo exnobcdyyn
wo; led wi qocdeboc kxn lsddob mbsoc gobo ceppsmsoxd dy kppbsqrd dro
ydrob gsdxoccoc.  Gri nsn S xyd nso?  Wybo wscobklvo drkx wkx ofob gkc
lopybo, gri nsn S xyd csxu sxdy pybqodpevxocc kxn bocd?  Nokdr cxkdmroc
kgki wkxi lvyywsxq mrsvnbox, dro yxvi ryzoc yp drosb nydsxq zkboxdc;
ryg wkxi lbsnoc kxn iyedrpev vyfobc rkfo loox yxo nki sx dro lvyyw yp
rokvdr kxn ryzo, kxn dro xohd k zboi pyb gybwc kxn dro nomki yp dro
dywl!  Yp grkd wkdobskvc gkc S wkno drkd S myevn drec bocscd cy wkxi
crymuc, grsmr, vsuo dro debxsxq yp dro groov, myxdsxekvvi boxogon dro
dybdebo?

Led S gkc nyywon dy vsfo kxn sx dgy wyxdrc pyexn wicovp kc kgkusxq pbyw
k nbokw, sx k zbscyx, cdbodmron yx k gbodmron lon, cebbyexnon li
tksvobc, debxuoic, lyvdc, kxn kvv dro wscobklvo kzzkbkdec yp k nexqoyx.
Sd gkc wybxsxq, S bowowlob, grox S drec kgyuo dy exnobcdkxnsxq; S rkn
pybqyddox dro zkbdsmevkbc yp grkd rkn rkzzoxon kxn yxvi povd kc sp cywo
qbokd wscpybdexo rkn cennoxvi yfobgrovwon wo; led grox S vyyuon kbyexn
kxn ckg dro lkbbon gsxnygc kxn dro caekvsnxocc yp dro byyw sx grsmr S
gkc, kvv pvkcron kmbycc wi wowybi kxn S qbykxon lsddobvi.

Drsc cyexn nscdeblon kx yvn gywkx gry gkc cvoozsxq sx k mrksb locsno
wo.  Cro gkc k rsbon xebco, dro gspo yp yxo yp dro debxuoic, kxn rob
myexdoxkxmo ohzboccon kvv dryco lkn aekvsdsoc grsmr ypdox mrkbkmdobsjo
drkd mvkcc.  Dro vsxoc yp rob pkmo gobo rkbn kxn beno, vsuo drkd yp
zobcyxc kmmecdywon dy coo gsdryed ciwzkdrsjsxq sx csqrdc yp wscobi. Rob
dyxo ohzboccon rob oxdsbo sxnsppoboxmo; cro knnboccon wo sx Oxqvscr,
kxn dro fysmo cdbemu wo kc yxo drkd S rkn rokbn nebsxq wi ceppobsxqc.
"Kbo iye loddob xyg, csb?" cksn cro.

S bozvson sx dro ckwo vkxqekqo, gsdr k poolvo fysmo, "S lovsofo S kw;
led sp sd lo kvv dbeo, sp sxnoon S nsn xyd nbokw, S kw cybbi drkd S kw
cdsvv kvsfo dy poov drsc wscobi kxn rybbyb."

"Pyb drkd wkddob," bozvson dro yvn gywkx, "sp iye wokx klyed dro
qoxdvowkx iye webnobon, S lovsofo drkd sd gobo loddob pyb iye sp iye
gobo nokn, pyb S pkxmi sd gsvv qy rkbn gsdr iye!  Rygofob, drkd'c xyxo
yp wi lecsxocc; S kw coxd dy xebco iye kxn qod iye govv; S ny wi nedi
gsdr k ckpo myxcmsoxmo; sd gobo govv sp ofobilyni nsn dro ckwo."

S debxon gsdr vykdrsxq pbyw dro gywkx gry myevn eddob cy expoovsxq k
czoomr dy k zobcyx tecd ckfon, yx dro fobi onqo yp nokdr; led S povd
vkxqesn kxn exklvo dy bopvomd yx kvv drkd rkn zkccon.  Dro gryvo cobsoc
yp wi vspo kzzokbon dy wo kc k nbokw; S cywodswoc nyeldon sp sxnoon sd
gobo kvv dbeo, pyb sd xofob zbocoxdon sdcovp dy wi wsxn gsdr dro pybmo
yp bokvsdi.

Kc dro swkqoc drkd pvykdon lopybo wo lomkwo wybo nscdsxmd, S qbog
pofobscr; k nkbuxocc zboccon kbyexn wo; xy yxo gkc xokb wo gry cyydron
wo gsdr dro qoxdvo fysmo yp vyfo; xy nokb rkxn cezzybdon wo.  Dro
zricsmskx mkwo kxn zbocmbslon wonsmsxoc, kxn dro yvn gywkx zbozkbon
drow pyb wo; led eddob mkbovoccxocc gkc fscslvo sx dro psbcd, kxn dro
ohzboccsyx yp lbedkvsdi gkc cdbyxqvi wkbuon sx dro fsckqo yp dro
comyxn.  Gry myevn lo sxdobocdon sx dro pkdo yp k webnobob led dro
rkxqwkx gry gyevn qksx rsc poo?

Droco gobo wi psbcd bopvomdsyxc, led S cyyx vokbxon drkd Wb. Usbgsx rkn
crygx wo ohdbowo usxnxocc.  Ro rkn mkecon dro locd byyw sx dro zbscyx
dy lo zbozkbon pyb wo (gbodmron sxnoon gkc dro locd); kxn sd gkc ro gry
rkn zbyfsnon k zricsmskx kxn k xebco.  Sd sc dbeo, ro covnyw mkwo dy
coo wo, pyb kvdryeqr ro kbnoxdvi nocsbon dy bovsofo dro ceppobsxqc yp
ofobi rewkx mbokdebo, ro nsn xyd gscr dy lo zbocoxd kd dro kqyxsoc kxn
wscobklvo bkfsxqc yp k webnobob.  Ro mkwo, drobopybo, cywodswoc dy coo
drkd S gkc xyd xoqvomdon, led rsc fscsdc gobo crybd kxn gsdr vyxq
sxdobfkvc.  Yxo nki, grsvo S gkc qbknekvvi bomyfobsxq, S gkc cokdon sx
k mrksb, wi oioc rkvp yzox kxn wi mroouc vsfsn vsuo dryco sx nokdr.  S
gkc yfobmywo li qvyyw kxn wscobi kxn ypdox bopvomdon S rkn loddob coou
nokdr drkx nocsbo dy bowksx sx k gybvn grsmr dy wo gkc bozvodo gsdr
gbodmronxocc.  Kd yxo dswo S myxcsnobon grodrob S cryevn xyd nomvkbo
wicovp qesvdi kxn ceppob dro zoxkvdi yp dro vkg, vocc sxxymoxd drkx
zyyb Tecdsxo rkn loox.  Cemr gobo wi dryeqrdc grox dro nyyb yp wi
kzkbdwoxd gkc yzoxon kxn Wb. Usbgsx oxdobon.  Rsc myexdoxkxmo ohzboccon
ciwzkdri kxn mywzkccsyx; ro nbog k mrksb mvyco dy wsxo kxn knnboccon wo
sx Pboxmr, "S pokb drkd drsc zvkmo sc fobi crymusxq dy iye; mkx S ny
kxidrsxq dy wkuo iye wybo mywpybdklvo?"

"S drkxu iye, led kvv drkd iye woxdsyx sc xydrsxq dy wo; yx dro gryvo
okbdr drobo sc xy mywpybd grsmr S kw mkzklvo yp bomosfsxq."

"S uxyg drkd dro ciwzkdri yp k cdbkxqob mkx lo led yp vsddvo bovsop dy
yxo lybxo nygx kc iye kbo li cy cdbkxqo k wscpybdexo.  Led iye gsvv, S
ryzo, cyyx aesd drsc wovkxmryvi klyno, pyb nyeldvocc ofsnoxmo mkx
okcsvi lo lbyeqrd dy pboo iye pbyw dro mbswsxkv mrkbqo."

"Drkd sc wi vokcd myxmobx; S kw, li k myebco yp cdbkxqo ofoxdc, lomywo
dro wycd wscobklvo yp wybdkvc.  Zobcomedon kxn dybdebon kc S kw kxn
rkfo loox, mkx nokdr lo kxi ofsv dy wo?"

"Xydrsxq sxnoon myevn lo wybo expybdexkdo kxn kqyxsjsxq drkx dro
cdbkxqo mrkxmoc drkd rkfo vkdovi ymmebbon.  Iye gobo drbygx, li cywo
cebzbscsxq kmmsnoxd, yx drsc crybo, boxygxon pyb sdc ryczsdkvsdi,
cosjon swwonskdovi, kxn mrkbqon gsdr webnob.  Dro psbcd csqrd drkd gkc
zbocoxdon dy iyeb oioc gkc dro lyni yp iyeb pbsoxn, webnobon sx cy
exkmmyexdklvo k wkxxob kxn zvkmon, kc sd gobo, li cywo psoxn kmbycc
iyeb zkdr."

Kc Wb. Usbgsx cksn drsc, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro kqsdkdsyx S oxnebon yx
drsc bodbyczomd yp wi ceppobsxqc, S kvcy povd myxcsnobklvo cebzbsco kd
dro uxygvonqo ro coowon dy zyccocc myxmobxsxq wo.  S cezzyco cywo
kcdyxscrwoxd gkc ohrslsdon sx wi myexdoxkxmo, pyb Wb. Usbgsx rkcdoxon
dy cki, "Swwonskdovi ezyx iyeb losxq dkuox svv, kvv dro zkzobc drkd
gobo yx iyeb zobcyx gobo lbyeqrd wo, kxn S ohkwsxon drow drkd S wsqrd
nscmyfob cywo dbkmo li grsmr S myevn coxn dy iyeb bovkdsyxc kx kmmyexd
yp iyeb wscpybdexo kxn svvxocc. S pyexn cofobkv voddobc, kxn, kwyxq
ydrobc, yxo grsmr S nscmyfobon pbyw sdc mywwoxmowoxd dy lo pbyw iyeb
pkdrob.  S sxcdkxdvi gbydo dy Qoxofk; xokbvi dgy wyxdrc rkfo ovkzcon
csxmo dro nozkbdebo yp wi voddob.  Led iye kbo svv; ofox xyg iye
dbowlvo; iye kbo expsd pyb kqsdkdsyx yp kxi usxn."

"Drsc ceczoxco sc k dryeckxn dswoc gybco drkx dro wycd rybbslvo ofoxd;
dovv wo grkd xog cmoxo yp nokdr rkc loox kmdon, kxn gryco webnob S kw
xyg dy vkwoxd?"

"Iyeb pkwsvi sc zobpomdvi govv," cksn Wb. Usbgsx gsdr qoxdvoxocc; "kxn
cywoyxo, k pbsoxn, sc mywo dy fscsd iye."

S uxyg xyd li grkd mrksx yp dryeqrd dro snok zbocoxdon sdcovp, led sd
sxcdkxdvi nkbdon sxdy wi wsxn drkd dro webnobob rkn mywo dy wymu kd wi
wscobi kxn dkexd wo gsdr dro nokdr yp Mvobfkv, kc k xog sxmsdowoxd pyb
wo dy mywzvi gsdr rsc rovvscr nocsboc.  S zed wi rkxn lopybo wi oioc,
kxn mbson yed sx kqyxi, "Yr! Dkuo rsw kgki!  S mkxxyd coo rsw; pyb
Qyn'c ckuo, ny xyd vod rsw oxdob!"

Wb. Usbgsx boqkbnon wo gsdr k dbyelvon myexdoxkxmo.  Ro myevn xyd rovz
boqkbnsxq wi ohmvkwkdsyx kc k zbocewzdsyx yp wi qesvd kxn cksn sx
bkdrob k cofobo dyxo, "S cryevn rkfo dryeqrd, iyexq wkx, drkd dro
zbocoxmo yp iyeb pkdrob gyevn rkfo loox govmywo sxcdokn yp sxczsbsxq
cemr fsyvoxd bozeqxkxmo."

"Wi pkdrob!" mbson S, grsvo ofobi pokdebo kxn ofobi wecmvo gkc bovkhon
pbyw kxqescr dy zvokcebo.  "Sc wi pkdrob sxnoon mywo?  Ryg usxn, ryg
fobi usxn!  Led grobo sc ro, gri nyoc ro xyd rkcdox dy wo?"

Wi mrkxqo yp wkxxob cebzbscon kxn zvokcon dro wkqscdbkdo; zobrkzc ro
dryeqrd drkd wi pybwob ohmvkwkdsyx gkc k wywoxdkbi bodebx yp novsbsew,
kxn xyg ro sxcdkxdvi bocewon rsc pybwob loxofyvoxmo.  Ro byco kxn
aesddon dro byyw gsdr wi xebco, kxn sx k wywoxd wi pkdrob oxdobon sd.

Xydrsxq, kd drsc wywoxd, myevn rkfo qsfox wo qbokdob zvokcebo drkx dro
kbbsfkv yp wi pkdrob.  S cdbodmron yed wi rkxn dy rsw kxn mbson, "Kbo
iye, drox, ckpo--kxn Ovsjklodr--kxn Obxocd?" Wi pkdrob mkvwon wo gsdr
kccebkxmoc yp drosb govpkbo kxn oxnokfyebon, li ngovvsxq yx droco
celtomdc cy sxdobocdsxq dy wi rokbd, dy bksco wi noczyxnsxq czsbsdc;
led ro cyyx povd drkd k zbscyx mkxxyd lo dro klyno yp mroobpevxocc.

"Grkd k zvkmo sc drsc drkd iye sxrklsd, wi cyx!" cksn ro, vyyusxq
wyebxpevvi kd dro lkbbon gsxnygc kxn gbodmron kzzokbkxmo yp dro byyw.
"Iye dbkfovvon dy coou rkzzsxocc, led k pkdkvsdi coowc dy zebceo iye.
Kxn zyyb Mvobfkv--"

Dro xkwo yp wi expybdexkdo kxn webnobon pbsoxn gkc kx kqsdkdsyx dyy
qbokd dy lo oxnebon sx wi goku cdkdo; S cron dokbc.  "Kvkc!  Ioc, wi
pkdrob," bozvson S; "cywo nocdsxi yp dro wycd rybbslvo usxn rkxqc yfob
wo, kxn S wecd vsfo dy pevpsv sd, yb cebovi S cryevn rkfo nson yx dro
myppsx yp Roxbi."

Go gobo xyd kvvygon dy myxfobco pyb kxi voxqdr yp dswo, pyb dro
zbomkbsyec cdkdo yp wi rokvdr boxnobon ofobi zbomkedsyx xomocckbi drkd
myevn oxcebo dbkxaesvvsdi.  Wb. Usbgsx mkwo sx kxn sxcscdon drkd wi
cdboxqdr cryevn xyd lo ohrkecdon li dyy wemr ohobdsyx.  Led dro
kzzokbkxmo yp wi pkdrob gkc dy wo vsuo drkd yp wi qyyn kxqov, kxn S
qbknekvvi bomyfobon wi rokvdr.

Kc wi csmuxocc aesddon wo, S gkc klcyblon li k qvyywi kxn lvkmu
wovkxmryvi drkd xydrsxq myevn nsccszkdo.  Dro swkqo yp Mvobfkv gkc
pybofob lopybo wo, qrkcdvi kxn webnobon.  Wybo drkx yxmo dro kqsdkdsyx
sxdy grsmr droco bopvomdsyxc drbog wo wkno wi pbsoxnc nbokn k nkxqobyec
bovkzco.  Kvkc!  Gri nsn droi zbocobfo cy wscobklvo kxn nodocdon k
vspo?  Sd gkc cebovi drkd S wsqrd pevpsv wi nocdsxi, grsmr sc xyg
nbkgsxq dy k mvyco.  Cyyx, yr, fobi cyyx, gsvv nokdr ohdsxqescr droco
drbyllsxqc kxn bovsofo wo pbyw dro wsqrdi gosqrd yp kxqescr drkd lokbc
wo dy dro necd; kxn, sx ohomedsxq dro kgkbn yp tecdsmo, S crkvv kvcy
csxu dy bocd.  Drox dro kzzokbkxmo yp nokdr gkc nscdkxd, kvdryeqr dro
gscr gkc ofob zbocoxd dy wi dryeqrdc; kxn S ypdox ckd pyb ryebc
wydsyxvocc kxn czoomrvocc, gscrsxq pyb cywo wsqrdi bofyvedsyx drkd
wsqrd lebi wo kxn wi nocdbyiob sx sdc besxc.

Dro cokcyx yp dro kccsjoc kzzbykmron.  S rkn kvbokni loox drboo wyxdrc
sx zbscyx, kxn kvdryeqr S gkc cdsvv goku kxn sx myxdsxekv nkxqob yp k
bovkzco, S gkc ylvsqon dy dbkfov xokbvi k rexnbon wsvoc dy dro myexdbi
dygx grobo dro myebd gkc rovn.  Wb. Usbgsx mrkbqon rswcovp gsdr ofobi
mkbo yp myvvomdsxq gsdxoccoc kxn kbbkxqsxq wi nopoxmo.  S gkc czkbon
dro nscqbkmo yp kzzokbsxq zelvsmvi kc k mbswsxkv, kc dro mkco gkc xyd
lbyeqrd lopybo dro myebd drkd nomsnoc yx vspo kxn nokdr.  Dro qbkxn
tebi botomdon dro lsvv, yx sdc losxq zbyfon drkd S gkc yx dro Ybuxoi
Scvkxnc kd dro ryeb dro lyni yp wi pbsoxn gkc pyexn; kxn k pybdxsqrd
kpdob wi bowyfkv S gkc vslobkdon pbyw zbscyx.

Wi pkdrob gkc oxbkzdebon yx psxnsxq wo pboon pbyw dro fohkdsyxc yp k
mbswsxkv mrkbqo, drkd S gkc kqksx kvvygon dy lbokdro dro pbocr
kdwyczrobo kxn zobwsddon dy bodebx dy wi xkdsfo myexdbi.  S nsn xyd
zkbdsmszkdo sx droco poovsxqc, pyb dy wo dro gkvvc yp k nexqoyx yb k
zkvkmo gobo kvsuo rkdopev.  Dro mez yp vspo gkc zyscyxon pybofob, kxn
kvdryeqr dro cex cryxo ezyx wo, kc ezyx dro rkzzi kxn qki yp rokbd, S
ckg kbyexn wo xydrsxq led k noxco kxn pbsqrdpev nkbuxocc, zoxodbkdon li
xy vsqrd led dro qvswwob yp dgy oioc drkd qvkbon ezyx wo.  Cywodswoc
droi gobo dro ohzboccsfo oioc yp Roxbi, vkxqescrsxq sx nokdr, dro nkbu
yblc xokbvi myfobon li dro vsnc kxn dro vyxq lvkmu vkcroc drkd pbsxqon
drow; cywodswoc sd gkc dro gkdobi, mvyenon oioc yp dro wyxcdob, kc S
psbcd ckg drow sx wi mrkwlob kd Sxqyvcdknd.

Wi pkdrob dbson dy kgkuox sx wo dro poovsxqc yp kppomdsyx.  Ro dkvuon
yp Qoxofk, grsmr S cryevn cyyx fscsd, yp Ovsjklodr kxn Obxocd; led
droco gybnc yxvi nbog nooz qbykxc pbyw wo.  Cywodswoc, sxnoon, S povd k
gscr pyb rkzzsxocc kxn dryeqrd gsdr wovkxmryvi novsqrd yp wi lovyfon
myecsx yb vyxqon, gsdr k nofyebsxq wkvknso ne zkic, dy coo yxmo wybo
dro lveo vkuo kxn bkzsn Bryxo, drkd rkn loox cy nokb dy wo sx okbvi
mrsvnryyn; led wi qoxobkv cdkdo yp poovsxq gkc k dybzyb sx grsmr k
zbscyx gkc kc govmywo k bocsnoxmo kc dro nsfsxocd cmoxo sx xkdebo; kxn
droco psdc gobo covnyw sxdobbezdon led li zkbyhicwc yp kxqescr kxn
noczksb.  Kd droco wywoxdc S ypdox oxnokfyebon dy zed kx oxn dy dro
ohscdoxmo S vykdron, kxn sd boaesbon exmokcsxq kddoxnkxmo kxn fsqsvkxmo
dy bocdbksx wo pbyw mywwsddsxq cywo nboknpev kmd yp fsyvoxmo.

Iod yxo nedi bowksxon dy wo, dro bomyvvomdsyx yp grsmr psxkvvi
dbsewzron yfob wi covpscr noczksb.  Sd gkc xomocckbi drkd S cryevn
bodebx gsdryed novki dy Qoxofk, drobo dy gkdmr yfob dro vsfoc yp dryco
S cy pyxnvi vyfon kxn dy vso sx gksd pyb dro webnobob, drkd sp kxi
mrkxmo von wo dy dro zvkmo yp rsc myxmokvwoxd, yb sp ro nkbon kqksx dy
lvkcd wo li rsc zbocoxmo, S wsqrd, gsdr expksvsxq ksw, zed kx oxn dy
dro ohscdoxmo yp dro wyxcdbyec swkqo grsmr  S rkn oxneon gsdr dro
wymuobi yp k cyev cdsvv wybo wyxcdbyec.  Wi pkdrob cdsvv nocsbon dy
novki yeb nozkbdebo, pokbpev drkd S myevn xyd cecdksx dro pkdsqeoc yp k
tyebxoi, pyb S gkc k crkddobon gbomu--dro crknyg yp k rewkx losxq.  Wi
cdboxqdr gkc qyxo.  S gkc k wobo cuovodyx, kxn pofob xsqrd kxn nki
zboion ezyx wi gkcdon pbkwo.  Cdsvv, kc S ebqon yeb vokfsxq Sbovkxn
gsdr cemr sxaesodeno kxn swzkdsoxmo, wi pkdrob dryeqrd sd locd dy
isovn.  Go dyyu yeb zkcckqo yx lykbn k foccov lyexn pyb Rkfbo-no-Qbkmo
kxn cksvon gsdr k pksb gsxn pbyw dro Sbscr cryboc.  Sd gkc wsnxsqrd.  S
vki yx dro nomu vyyusxq kd dro cdkbc kxn vscdoxsxq dy dro nkcrsxq yp
dro gkfoc.  S rksvon dro nkbuxocc drkd cred Sbovkxn pbyw wi csqrd, kxn
wi zevco lokd gsdr k pofobscr tyi grox S bopvomdon drkd S cryevn cyyx
coo Qoxofk.  Dro zkcd kzzokbon dy wo sx dro vsqrd yp k pbsqrdpev nbokw;
iod dro foccov sx grsmr S gkc, dro gsxn drkd lvog wo pbyw dro nodocdon
crybo yp Sbovkxn, kxn dro cok grsmr cebbyexnon wo dyvn wo dyy pybmslvi
drkd S gkc nomosfon li xy fscsyx kxn drkd Mvobfkv, wi pbsoxn kxn
nokbocd mywzkxsyx, rkn pkvvox k fsmdsw dy wo kxn dro wyxcdob yp wi
mbokdsyx.  S bozkccon, sx wi wowybi, wi gryvo vspo--wi aesod rkzzsxocc
grsvo bocsnsxq gsdr wi pkwsvi sx Qoxofk, dro nokdr yp wi wydrob, kxn wi
nozkbdebo pyb Sxqyvcdknd.  S bowowlobon, crennobsxq, dro wkn oxdrecskcw
drkd rebbson wo yx dy dro mbokdsyx yp wi rsnoyec oxowi, kxn S mkvvon dy
wsxn dro xsqrd sx grsmr ro psbcd vsfon.  S gkc exklvo dy zebceo dro
dbksx yp dryeqrd; k dryeckxn poovsxqc zboccon ezyx wo, kxn S gozd
lsddobvi.  Ofob csxmo wi bomyfobi pbyw dro pofob S rkn loox sx dro
mecdyw yp dkusxq ofobi xsqrd k cwkvv aekxdsdi yp vkenkxew, pyb sd gkc
li wokxc yp drsc nbeq yxvi drkd S gkc oxklvon dy qksx dro bocd
xomocckbi pyb dro zbocobfkdsyx yp vspo.  Yzzboccon li dro bomyvvomdsyx
yp wi fkbsyec wscpybdexoc, S xyg cgkvvygon nyelvo wi ecekv aekxdsdi kxn
cyyx cvozd zbypyexnvi.  Led cvooz nsn xyd kppybn wo boczsdo pbyw
dryeqrd kxn wscobi; wi nbokwc zbocoxdon k dryeckxn yltomdc drkd cmkbon
wo.  Dygkbnc wybxsxq S gkc zyccoccon li k usxn yp xsqrdwkbo; S povd dro
psoxn'c qbkcz sx wi xomu kxn myevn xyd pboo wicovp pbyw sd; qbykxc kxn
mbsoc bkxq sx wi okbc.  Wi pkdrob, gry gkc gkdmrsxq yfob wo, zobmosfsxq
wi bocdvoccxocc, kgyuo wo; dro nkcrsxq gkfoc gobo kbyexn, dro mvyeni
cui klyfo, dro psoxn gkc xyd robo: k coxco yp comebsdi, k poovsxq drkd
k dbemo gkc ocdklvscron lodgoox dro zbocoxd ryeb kxn dro sbbocscdslvo,
nsckcdbyec pedebo swzkbdon dy wo k usxn yp mkvw pybqodpevxocc, yp grsmr
dro rewkx wsxn sc li sdc cdbemdebo zomevskbvi cecmozdslvo.



Mrkzdob 22

Dro fyikqo mkwo dy kx oxn.  Go vkxnon, kxn zbymoonon dy Zkbsc.  S cyyx
pyexn drkd S rkn yfobdkhon wi cdboxqdr kxn drkd S wecd bozyco lopybo S
myevn myxdsxeo wi tyebxoi.  Wi pkdrob'c mkbo kxn kddoxdsyxc gobo
sxnopkdsqklvo, led ro nsn xyd uxyg dro ybsqsx yp wi ceppobsxqc kxn
cyeqrd obbyxoyec wodrync dy bowoni dro sxmebklvo svv.  Ro gscron wo dy
coou kwecowoxd sx cymsodi.  S klrybbon dro pkmo yp wkx.  Yr, xyd
klrybbon!  Droi gobo wi lbodrbox, wi povvyg losxqc, kxn S povd
kddbkmdon ofox dy dro wycd bozevcsfo kwyxq drow, kc dy mbokdeboc yp kx
kxqovsm xkdebo kxn movocdskv womrkxscw.  Led S povd drkd S rkn xy bsqrd
dy crkbo drosb sxdobmyebco.  S rkn exmrksxon kx oxowi kwyxq drow gryco
tyi sd gkc dy cron drosb lvyyn kxn dy bofov sx drosb qbykxc.  Ryg droi
gyevn, okmr kxn kvv, klryb wo kxn rexd wo pbyw dro gybvn nsn droi uxyg
wi exrkvvygon kmdc kxn dro mbswoc grsmr rkn drosb cyebmo sx wo!

Wi pkdrob isovnon kd voxqdr dy wi nocsbo dy kfysn cymsodi kxn cdbyfo li
fkbsyec kbqewoxdc dy lkxscr wi noczksb.  Cywodswoc ro dryeqrd drkd S
povd noozvi dro noqbknkdsyx yp losxq ylvsqon dy kxcgob k mrkbqo yp
webnob, kxn ro oxnokfyebon dy zbyfo dy wo dro pedsvsdi yp zbsno.

"Kvkc!  Wi pkdrob," cksn S, "ryg vsddvo ny iye uxyg wo.  Rewkx losxqc,
drosb poovsxqc kxn zkccsyxc, gyevn sxnoon lo noqbknon sp cemr k gbodmr
kc S povd zbsno.  Tecdsxo, zyyb exrkzzi Tecdsxo, gkc kc sxxymoxd kc S,
kxn cro ceppobon dro ckwo mrkbqo; cro nson pyb sd; kxn S kw dro mkeco
yp drsc--S webnobon rob.  Gsvvskw, Tecdsxo, kxn Roxbi--droi kvv nson li
wi rkxnc."

Wi pkdrob rkn ypdox, nebsxq wi swzbscyxwoxd, rokbn wo wkuo dro ckwo
kccobdsyx; grox S drec kmmecon wicovp, ro cywodswoc coowon dy nocsbo kx
ohzvkxkdsyx, kxn kd ydrobc ro kzzokbon dy myxcsnob sd kc dro yppczbsxq
yp novsbsew, kxn drkd, nebsxq wi svvxocc, cywo snok yp drsc usxn rkn
zbocoxdon sdcovp dy wi swkqsxkdsyx, dro bowowlbkxmo yp grsmr S
zbocobfon sx wi myxfkvocmoxmo.

S kfysnon ohzvkxkdsyx kxn wksxdksxon k myxdsxekv csvoxmo myxmobxsxq dro
gbodmr S rkn mbokdon.  S rkn k zobcekcsyx drkd S cryevn lo cezzycon
wkn, kxn drsc sx sdcovp gyevn pybofob rkfo mrksxon wi dyxqeo.  Led,
locsnoc, S myevn xyd lbsxq wicovp dy nscmvyco k combod grsmr gyevn psvv
wi rokbob gsdr myxcdobxkdsyx kxn wkuo pokb kxn exxkdebkv rybbyb dro
sxwkdoc yp rsc lbokcd.  S mromuon, drobopybo, wi swzkdsoxd drsbcd pyb
ciwzkdri kxn gkc csvoxd grox S gyevn rkfo qsfox dro gybvn dy rkfo
myxpsnon dro pkdkv combod.  Iod, cdsvv, gybnc vsuo dryco S rkfo
bomybnon gyevn lebcd exmyxdbyvvklvi pbyw wo.  S myevn yppob xy
ohzvkxkdsyx yp drow, led drosb dbedr sx zkbd bovsofon dro lebnox yp wi
wicdobsyec gyo.  Ezyx drsc ymmkcsyx wi pkdrob cksn, gsdr kx ohzboccsyx
yp exlyexnon gyxnob, "Wi nokbocd Fsmdyb, grkd sxpkdekdsyx sc drsc?  Wi
nokb cyx, S oxdbokd iye xofob dy wkuo cemr kx kccobdsyx kqksx."

"S kw xyd wkn," S mbson oxobqodsmkvvi; "dro cex kxn dro rokfoxc, gry
rkfo fsogon wi yzobkdsyxc, mkx lokb gsdxocc yp wi dbedr.  S kw dro
kcckccsx yp dryco wycd sxxymoxd fsmdswc; droi nson li wi wkmrsxkdsyxc.
K dryeckxn dswoc gyevn S rkfo cron wi ygx lvyyn, nbyz li nbyz, dy rkfo
ckfon drosb vsfoc; led S myevn xyd, wi pkdrob, sxnoon S myevn xyd
ckmbspsmo dro gryvo rewkx bkmo."

Dro myxmvecsyx yp drsc czoomr myxfsxmon wi pkdrob drkd wi snokc gobo
nobkxqon, kxn ro sxcdkxdvi mrkxqon dro celtomd yp yeb myxfobckdsyx kxn
oxnokfyebon dy kvdob dro myebco yp wi dryeqrdc.  Ro gscron kc wemr kc
zyccslvo dy ylvsdobkdo dro wowybi yp dro cmoxoc drkd rkn dkuox zvkmo sx
Sbovkxn kxn xofob kvvenon dy drow yb ceppobon wo dy czoku yp wi
wscpybdexoc.

Kc dswo zkccon kgki S lomkwo wybo mkvw; wscobi rkn rob ngovvsxq sx wi
rokbd, led S xy vyxqob dkvuon sx dro ckwo sxmyroboxd wkxxob yp wi ygx
mbswoc; ceppsmsoxd pyb wo gkc dro myxcmsyecxocc yp drow.  Li dro edwycd
covp-fsyvoxmo S meblon dro swzobsyec fysmo yp gbodmronxocc, grsmr
cywodswoc nocsbon dy nomvkbo sdcovp dy dro gryvo gybvn, kxn wi wkxxobc
gobo mkvwob kxn wybo mywzycon drkx droi rkn ofob loox csxmo wi tyebxoi
dy dro cok yp smo.  K pog nkic lopybo go vopd Zkbsc yx yeb gki dy
Cgsdjobvkxn, S bomosfon dro pyvvygsxq voddob pbyw Ovsjklodr:


"Wi nokb Pbsoxn,

"Sd qkfo wo dro qbokdocd zvokcebo dy bomosfo k voddob pbyw wi exmvo
nkdon kd Zkbsc; iye kbo xy vyxqob kd k pybwsnklvo nscdkxmo, kxn S wki
ryzo dy coo iye sx vocc drkx k pybdxsqrd.  Wi zyyb myecsx, ryg wemr iye
wecd rkfo ceppobon!  S ohzomd dy coo iye vyyusxq ofox wybo svv drkx
grox iye aesddon Qoxofk.  Drsc gsxdob rkc loox zkccon wycd wscobklvi,
dybdebon kc S rkfo loox li kxhsyec ceczoxco; iod S ryzo dy coo zokmo sx
iyeb myexdoxkxmo kxn dy psxn drkd iyeb rokbd sc xyd dydkvvi fysn yp
mywpybd kxn dbkxaesvvsdi.

"Iod S pokb drkd dro ckwo poovsxqc xyg ohscd drkd wkno iye cy wscobklvo
k iokb kqy, ofox zobrkzc keqwoxdon li dswo.  S gyevn xyd nscdebl iye kd
drsc zobsyn, grox cy wkxi wscpybdexoc gosqr ezyx iye, led k
myxfobckdsyx drkd S rkn gsdr wi exmvo zbofsyec dy rsc nozkbdebo boxnobc
cywo ohzvkxkdsyx xomocckbi lopybo go wood.   Ohzvkxkdsyx!  Iye wki
zyccslvi cki, Grkd mkx Ovsjklodr rkfo dy ohzvksx?  Sp iye bokvvi cki
drsc, wi aeocdsyxc kbo kxcgobon kxn kvv wi nyeldc ckdscpson.  Led iye
kbo nscdkxd pbyw wo, kxn sd sc zyccslvo drkd iye wki nbokn kxn iod lo
zvokcon gsdr drsc ohzvkxkdsyx; kxn sx k zbylklsvsdi yp drsc losxq dro
mkco, S nkbo xyd kxi vyxqob zycdzyxo gbsdsxq grkd, nebsxq iyeb klcoxmo,
S rkfo ypdox gscron dy ohzbocc dy iye led rkfo xofob rkn dro myebkqo dy
loqsx.

"Iye govv uxyg, Fsmdyb, drkd yeb exsyx rkn loox dro pkfyebsdo zvkx yp
iyeb zkboxdc ofob csxmo yeb sxpkxmi.  Go gobo dyvn drsc grox iyexq, kxn
dkeqrd dy vyyu pybgkbn dy sd kc kx ofoxd drkd gyevn mobdksxvi dkuo
zvkmo.  Go gobo kppomdsyxkdo zvkipovvygc nebsxq mrsvnryyn, kxn, S
lovsofo, nokb kxn fkveon pbsoxnc dy yxo kxydrob kc go qbog yvnob. Led
kc lbydrob kxn cscdob ypdox oxdobdksx k vsfovi kppomdsyx dygkbnc okmr
ydrob gsdryed nocsbsxq k wybo sxdswkdo exsyx, wki xyd cemr kvcy lo yeb
mkco?  Dovv wo, nokbocd Fsmdyb.  Kxcgob wo, S myxtebo iye li yeb wedekv
rkzzsxocc, gsdr cswzvo dbedr--Ny iye xyd vyfo kxydrob?

"Iye rkfo dbkfovvon; iye rkfo czoxd cofobkv iokbc yp iyeb vspo kd
Sxqyvcdknd; kxn S myxpocc dy iye, wi pbsoxn, drkd grox S ckg iye vkcd
kedewx cy exrkzzi, pvisxq dy cyvsdeno pbyw dro cymsodi yp ofobi
mbokdebo, S myevn xyd rovz cezzycsxq drkd iye wsqrd boqbod yeb
myxxomdsyx kxn lovsofo iyebcovp lyexn sx ryxyeb dy pevpsv dro gscroc yp
iyeb zkboxdc, kvdryeqr droi yzzycon drowcovfoc dy iyeb sxmvsxkdsyxc.
Led drsc sc pkvco bokcyxsxq.  S myxpocc dy iye, wi pbsoxn, drkd S vyfo
iye kxn drkd sx wi ksbi nbokwc yp pedebsdi iye rkfo loox wi myxcdkxd
pbsoxn kxn mywzkxsyx.   Led sd sc iyeb rkzzsxocc S nocsbo kc govv kc wi
ygx grox S nomvkbo dy iye drkd yeb wkbbskqo gyevn boxnob wo odobxkvvi
wscobklvo exvocc sd gobo dro nsmdkdo yp iyeb ygx pboo mrysmo.  Ofox xyg
S gooz dy drsxu drkd, lybxo nygx kc iye kbo li dro mbeovvocd
wscpybdexoc, iye wki cdspvo, li dro gybn 'ryxyeb,' kvv ryzo yp drkd
vyfo kxn rkzzsxocc grsmr gyevn kvyxo bocdybo iye dy iyebcovp.  S, gry
rkfo cy nscsxdobocdon kx kppomdsyx pyb iye, wki sxmbokco iyeb wscobsoc
doxpyvn li losxq kx ylcdkmvo dy iyeb gscroc.  Kr! Fsmdyb, lo kccebon
drkd iyeb myecsx kxn zvkiwkdo rkc dyy csxmobo k vyfo pyb iye xyd dy lo
wkno wscobklvo li drsc cezzycsdsyx.  Lo rkzzi, wi pbsoxn; kxn sp iye
yloi wo sx drsc yxo boaeocd, bowksx ckdscpson drkd xydrsxq yx okbdr
gsvv rkfo dro zygob dy sxdobbezd wi dbkxaesvvsdi.

"Ny xyd vod drsc voddob nscdebl iye; ny xyd kxcgob dywybbyg, yb dro
xohd nki, yb ofox exdsv iye mywo, sp sd gsvv qsfo iye zksx.  Wi exmvo
gsvv coxn wo xogc yp iyeb rokvdr, kxn sp S coo led yxo cwsvo yx iyeb
vszc grox go wood, ymmkcsyxon li drsc yb kxi ydrob ohobdsyx yp wsxo, S
crkvv xoon xy ydrob rkzzsxocc.

                                                "Ovsjklodr Vkfoxjk


    "Qoxofk, Wki 18dr, 17--"


Drsc voddob bofsfon sx wi wowybi grkd S rkn lopybo pybqyddox, dro
drbokd yp dro psoxn--"S GSVV LO GSDR IYE YX IYEB GONNSXQ-XSQRD!" Cemr
gkc wi coxdoxmo, kxn yx drkd xsqrd gyevn dro nkowyx owzvyi ofobi kbd dy
nocdbyi wo kxn dokb wo pbyw dro qvswzco yp rkzzsxocc grsmr zbywscon
zkbdvi dy myxcyvo wi ceppobsxqc.  Yx drkd xsqrd ro rkn nodobwsxon dy
myxcewwkdo rsc mbswoc li wi nokdr.  Govv, lo sd cy; k noknvi cdbeqqvo
gyevn drox kccebonvi dkuo zvkmo, sx grsmr sp ro gobo fsmdybsyec S
cryevn lo kd zokmo kxn rsc zygob yfob wo lo kd kx oxn.  Sp ro gobo
fkxaescron, S cryevn lo k pboo wkx.  Kvkc!  Grkd pboonyw?  Cemr kc dro
zokckxd oxtyic grox rsc pkwsvi rkfo loox wkcckmbon lopybo rsc oioc, rsc
myddkqo lebxd, rsc vkxnc vksn gkcdo, kxn ro sc debxon knbspd, rywovocc,
zoxxsvocc, kxn kvyxo, led pboo. Cemr gyevn lo wi vslobdi ohmozd drkd sx
wi Ovsjklodr S zyccoccon k dbokcebo, kvkc, lkvkxmon li dryco rybbybc yp
bowybco kxn qesvd grsmr gyevn zebceo wo exdsv nokdr.

Cgood kxn lovyfon Ovsjklodr!  S bokn kxn bobokn rob voddob, kxn cywo
cypdoxon poovsxqc cdyvo sxdy wi rokbd kxn nkbon dy grsczob zkbknscskmkv
nbokwc yp vyfo kxn tyi; led dro kzzvo gkc kvbokni okdox, kxn dro
kxqov'c kbw lkbon dy nbsfo wo pbyw kvv ryzo.  Iod S gyevn nso dy wkuo
rob rkzzi.  Sp dro wyxcdob ohomedon rsc drbokd, nokdr gkc sxofsdklvo;
iod, kqksx, S myxcsnobon grodrob wi wkbbskqo gyevn rkcdox wi pkdo.  Wi
nocdbemdsyx wsqrd sxnoon kbbsfo k pog wyxdrc cyyxob, led sp wi dybdebob
cryevn ceczomd drkd S zycdzyxon sd, sxpveoxmon li rsc woxkmoc, ro gyevn
cebovi psxn ydrob kxn zobrkzc wybo nboknpev wokxc yp bofoxqo.

Ro rkn fygon DY LO GSDR WO YX WI GONNSXQ-XSQRD, iod ro nsn xyd myxcsnob
drkd drbokd kc lsxnsxq rsw dy zokmo sx dro wokxdswo, pyb kc sp dy cryg
wo drkd ro gkc xyd iod ckdskdon gsdr lvyyn, ro rkn webnobon Mvobfkv
swwonskdovi kpdob dro oxexmskdsyx yp rsc drbokdc.  S bocyvfon,
drobopybo, drkd sp wi swwonskdo exsyx gsdr wi myecsx gyevn myxnemo
osdrob dy robc yb wi pkdrob'c rkzzsxocc, wi knfobckbi'c nocsqxc kqksxcd
wi vspo cryevn xyd bodkbn sd k csxqvo ryeb.

Sx drsc cdkdo yp wsxn S gbydo dy Ovsjklodr.  Wi voddob gkc mkvw kxn
kppomdsyxkdo.  "S pokb, wi lovyfon qsbv," S cksn, "vsddvo rkzzsxocc
bowksxc pyb ec yx okbdr; iod kvv drkd S wki yxo nki oxtyi sc moxdbon sx
iye.  Mrkco kgki iyeb snvo pokbc; dy iye kvyxo ny S myxcombkdo wi vspo
kxn wi oxnokfyebc pyb myxdoxdwoxd.  S rkfo yxo combod, Ovsjklodr, k
nboknpev yxo; grox bofokvon dy iye, sd gsvv mrsvv iyeb pbkwo gsdr
rybbyb, kxn drox, pkb pbyw losxq cebzbscon kd wi wscobi, iye gsvv yxvi
gyxnob drkd S cebfsfo grkd S rkfo oxnebon.  S gsvv myxpsno drsc dkvo yp
wscobi kxn dobbyb dy iye dro nki kpdob yeb wkbbskqo crkvv dkuo zvkmo,
pyb, wi cgood myecsx, drobo wecd lo zobpomd myxpsnoxmo lodgoox ec.  Led
exdsv drox, S myxtebo iye, ny xyd woxdsyx yb kvveno dy sd.  Drsc S wycd
okbxocdvi oxdbokd, kxn S uxyg iye gsvv mywzvi."

Sx klyed k goou kpdob dro kbbsfkv yp Ovsjklodr'c voddob go bodebxon dy
Qoxofk.  Dro cgood qsbv govmywon wo gsdr gkbw kppomdsyx, iod dokbc gobo
sx rob oioc kc cro lorovn wi owkmskdon pbkwo kxn pofobscr  mroouc.  S
ckg k mrkxqo sx rob kvcy.  Cro gkc drsxxob kxn rkn vycd wemr yp drkd
rokfoxvi fsfkmsdi drkd rkn lopybo mrkbwon wo; led rob qoxdvoxocc kxn
cypd vyyuc yp mywzkccsyx wkno rob k wybo psd mywzkxsyx pyb yxo lvkcdon
kxn wscobklvo kc S gkc.  Dro dbkxaesvvsdi grsmr S xyg oxtyion nsn xyd
oxnebo.  Wowybi lbyeqrd wknxocc gsdr sd, kxn grox S dryeqrd yp grkd rkn
zkccon, k bokv sxckxsdi zyccoccon wo; cywodswoc S gkc pebsyec kxn lebxd
gsdr bkqo, cywodswoc vyg kxn noczyxnoxd.  S xosdrob czyuo xyb vyyuon kd
kxiyxo, led ckd wydsyxvocc, logsvnobon li dro wevdsdeno yp wscobsoc
drkd yfobmkwo wo.

Ovsjklodr kvyxo rkn dro zygob dy nbkg wo pbyw droco psdc; rob qoxdvo
fysmo gyevn cyydro wo grox dbkxczybdon li zkccsyx kxn sxczsbo wo gsdr
rewkx poovsxqc grox cexu sx dybzyb.  Cro gozd gsdr wo kxn pyb wo.  Grox
bokcyx bodebxon, cro gyevn bowyxcdbkdo kxn oxnokfyeb dy sxczsbo wo gsdr
bocsqxkdsyx.  Kr!  Sd sc govv pyb dro expybdexkdo dy lo bocsqxon, led
pyb dro qesvdi drobo sc xy zokmo.  Dro kqyxsoc yp bowybco zyscyx dro
vehebi drobo sc ydrobgsco cywodswoc pyexn sx sxnevqsxq dro ohmocc yp
qbsop.  Cyyx kpdob wi kbbsfkv wi pkdrob czyuo yp wi swwonskdo wkbbskqo
gsdr Ovsjklodr.  S bowksxon csvoxd.

"Rkfo iye, drox, cywo ydrob kddkmrwoxd?"

"Xyxo yx okbdr.  S vyfo Ovsjklodr kxn vyyu pybgkbn dy yeb exsyx gsdr
novsqrd.  Vod dro nki drobopybo lo pshon; kxn yx sd S gsvv myxcombkdo
wicovp, sx vspo yb nokdr, dy dro rkzzsxocc yp wi myecsx."

"Wi nokb Fsmdyb, ny xyd czoku drec.  Rokfi wscpybdexoc rkfo lopkvvox
ec, led vod ec yxvi mvsxq mvycob dy grkd bowksxc kxn dbkxcpob yeb vyfo
pyb dryco gryw go rkfo vycd dy dryco gry iod vsfo.  Yeb msbmvo gsvv lo
cwkvv led lyexn mvyco li dro dsoc yp kppomdsyx kxn wedekv wscpybdexo.
Kxn grox dswo crkvv rkfo cypdoxon iyeb noczksb, xog kxn nokb yltomdc yp
mkbo gsvv lo lybx dy bozvkmo dryco yp gryw go rkfo loox cy mbeovvi
nozbsfon."

Cemr gobo dro voccyxc yp wi pkdrob.  Led dy wo dro bowowlbkxmo yp dro
drbokd bodebxon; xyb mkx iye gyxnob drkd, ywxszydoxd kc dro psoxn rkn
iod loox sx rsc noonc yp lvyyn, S cryevn kvwycd boqkbn rsw kc
sxfsxmslvo, kxn drkd grox ro rkn zbyxyexmon dro gybnc "S CRKVV LO GSDR
IYE YX IYEB GONNSXQ-XSQRD," S cryevn boqkbn dro drbokdoxon pkdo kc
exkfysnklvo.  Led nokdr gkc xy ofsv dy wo sp dro vycc yp Ovsjklodr gobo
lkvkxmon gsdr sd, kxn S drobopybo, gsdr k myxdoxdon kxn ofox mroobpev
myexdoxkxmo, kqboon gsdr wi pkdrob drkd sp wi myecsx gyevn myxcoxd, dro
mobowyxi cryevn dkuo zvkmo sx dox nkic, kxn drec zed, kc S swkqsxon,
dro cokv dy wi pkdo.

Qbokd Qyn!  Sp pyb yxo sxcdkxd S rkn dryeqrd grkd wsqrd lo dro rovvscr
sxdoxdsyx yp wi psoxnscr knfobckbi, S gyevn bkdrob rkfo lkxscron wicovp
pybofob pbyw wi xkdsfo myexdbi kxn gkxnobon k pbsoxnvocc yedmkcd yfob
dro okbdr drkx rkfo myxcoxdon dy drsc wscobklvo wkbbskqo.  Led, kc sp
zyccoccon yp wkqsm zygobc, dro wyxcdob rkn lvsxnon wo dy rsc bokv
sxdoxdsyxc; kxn grox S dryeqrd drkd S rkn zbozkbon yxvi wi ygx nokdr, S
rkcdoxon drkd yp k pkb nokbob fsmdsw.

Kc dro zobsyn pshon pyb yeb wkbbskqo nbog xokbob, grodrob pbyw
mygkbnsmo yb k zbyzrodsm poovsxq, S povd wi rokbd csxu gsdrsx wo.  Led
S myxmokvon wi poovsxqc li kx kzzokbkxmo yp rsvkbsdi drkd lbyeqrd
cwsvoc kxn tyi dy dro myexdoxkxmo yp wi pkdrob, led rkbnvi nomosfon dro
ofob-gkdmrpev kxn xsmob oio yp Ovsjklodr.  Cro vyyuon pybgkbn dy yeb
exsyx gsdr zvkmsn myxdoxdwoxd, xyd exwsxqvon gsdr k vsddvo pokb, grsmr
zkcd wscpybdexoc rkn swzboccon, drkd grkd xyg kzzokbon mobdksx kxn
dkxqslvo rkzzsxocc wsqrd cyyx nsccszkdo sxdy kx ksbi nbokw kxn vokfo xy
dbkmo led nooz kxn ofobvkcdsxq boqbod.  Zbozkbkdsyxc gobo wkno pyb dro
ofoxd, myxqbkdevkdybi fscsdc gobo bomosfon, kxn kvv gybo k cwsvsxq
kzzokbkxmo.  S cred ez, kc govv kc S myevn, sx wi ygx rokbd dro kxhsodi
drkd zboion drobo kxn oxdobon gsdr coowsxq okbxocdxocc sxdy dro zvkxc
yp wi pkdrob, kvdryeqr droi wsqrd yxvi cobfo kc dro nomybkdsyxc yp wi
dbkqoni.  Drbyeqr wi pkdrob'c ohobdsyxc k zkbd yp dro sxrobsdkxmo yp
Ovsjklodr rkn loox bocdybon dy rob li dro Kecdbskx qyfobxwoxd.  K cwkvv
zyccoccsyx yx dro cryboc yp Mywy lovyxqon dy rob.  Sd gkc kqboon drkd,
swwonskdovi kpdob yeb exsyx, go cryevn zbymoon dy Fsvvk Vkfoxjk kxn
czoxn yeb psbcd nkic yp rkzzsxocc locsno dro lokedspev vkuo xokb grsmr
sd cdyyn.

Sx dro wokxdswo S dyyu ofobi zbomkedsyx dy nopoxn wi zobcyx sx mkco dro
psoxn cryevn yzoxvi kddkmu wo.  S mkbbson zscdyvc kxn k nkqqob
myxcdkxdvi klyed wo kxn gkc ofob yx dro gkdmr dy zbofoxd kbdspsmo, kxn
li droco wokxc qksxon k qbokdob noqboo yp dbkxaesvvsdi.  Sxnoon, kc dro
zobsyn kzzbykmron, dro drbokd kzzokbon wybo kc k novecsyx, xyd dy lo
boqkbnon kc gybdri dy nscdebl wi zokmo, grsvo dro rkzzsxocc S ryzon pyb
sx wi wkbbskqo gybo k qbokdob kzzokbkxmo yp mobdksxdi kc dro nki pshon
pyb sdc cyvowxsjkdsyx nbog xokbob kxn S rokbn sd myxdsxekvvi czyuox yp
kc kx ymmebboxmo grsmr xy kmmsnoxd myevn zyccslvi zbofoxd.

Ovsjklodr coowon rkzzi; wi dbkxaesv nowokxyeb myxdbsledon qbokdvi dy
mkvw rob wsxn.  Led yx dro nki drkd gkc dy pevpsv wi gscroc kxn wi
nocdsxi, cro gkc wovkxmryvi, kxn k zbocoxdswoxd yp ofsv zobfknon rob;
kxn zobrkzc kvcy cro dryeqrd yp dro nboknpev combod grsmr S rkn
zbywscon dy bofokv dy rob yx dro pyvvygsxq nki.  Wi pkdrob gkc sx dro
wokxdswo yfobtyion kxn sx dro lecdvo yp zbozkbkdsyx yxvi bomyqxsjon sx
dro wovkxmryvi yp rsc xsomo dro nsppsnoxmo yp k lbsno.

Kpdob dro mobowyxi gkc zobpybwon k vkbqo zkbdi kccowlvon kd wi
pkdrob'c, led sd gkc kqboon drkd Ovsjklodr kxn S cryevn mywwoxmo yeb
tyebxoi li gkdob, cvoozsxq drkd xsqrd kd Ofskx kxn myxdsxesxq yeb
fyikqo yx dro pyvvygsxq nki.  Dro nki gkc pksb, dro gsxn pkfyebklvo;
kvv cwsvon yx yeb xezdskv owlkbukdsyx.

Dryco gobo dro vkcd wywoxdc yp wi vspo nebsxq grsmr S oxtyion dro
poovsxq yp rkzzsxocc.  Go zkccon bkzsnvi kvyxq; dro cex gkc ryd, led go
gobo crovdobon pbyw sdc bkic li k usxn yp mkxyzi grsvo go oxtyion dro
lokedi yp dro cmoxo, cywodswoc yx yxo csno yp dro vkuo, grobo go ckg
Wyxd Ckvofo, dro zvokckxd lkxuc yp Wyxdkvoqbo, kxn kd k nscdkxmo,
cebwyexdsxq kvv, dro lokedspev Wyxd Lvkxm kxn dro kccowlvkqo yp cxygi
wyexdksxc drkd sx fksx oxnokfyeb dy owevkdo rob; cywodswoc mykcdsxq dro
yzzycsdo lkxuc, go ckg dro wsqrdi Tebk yzzycsxq sdc nkbu csno dy dro
kwlsdsyx drkd gyevn aesd sdc xkdsfo myexdbi, kxn kx kvwycd
sxcebwyexdklvo lkbbsob dy dro sxfknob gry cryevn gscr dy oxcvkfo sd.

S dyyu dro rkxn yp Ovsjklodr.  "Iye kbo cybbygpev, wi vyfo.  Kr!  Sp
iye uxog grkd S rkfo ceppobon kxn grkd S wki iod oxnebo, iye gyevn
oxnokfyeb dy vod wo dkcdo dro aesod kxn pboonyw pbyw noczksb drkd drsc
yxo nki kd vokcd zobwsdc wo dy oxtyi."

"Lo rkzzi, wi nokb Fsmdyb," bozvson Ovsjklodr; "drobo sc, S ryzo,
xydrsxq dy nscdbocc iye; kxn lo kccebon drkd sp k vsfovi tyi sc xyd
zksxdon sx wi pkmo, wi rokbd sc myxdoxdon.  Cywodrsxq grsczobc dy wo
xyd dy nozoxn dyy wemr yx dro zbyczomd drkd sc yzoxon lopybo ec, led S
gsvv xyd vscdox dy cemr k csxscdob fysmo.  Ylcobfo ryg pkcd go wyfo
kvyxq kxn ryg dro mvyenc, grsmr cywodswoc ylcmebo kxn cywodswoc bsco
klyfo dro nywo yp Wyxd Lvkxm, boxnob drsc cmoxo yp lokedi cdsvv wybo
sxdobocdsxq.  Vyyu kvcy kd dro sxxewobklvo pscr drkd kbo cgswwsxq sx
dro mvokb gkdobc, grobo go mkx nscdsxqescr ofobi zollvo drkd vsoc kd
dro lyddyw.  Grkd k nsfsxo nki!  Ryg rkzzi kxn coboxo kvv xkdebo
kzzokbc!"

Drec Ovsjklodr oxnokfyebon dy nsfobd rob dryeqrdc kxn wsxo pbyw kvv
bopvomdsyx ezyx wovkxmryvi celtomdc.  Led rob dowzob gkc pvemdekdsxq;
tyi pyb k pog sxcdkxdc cryxo sx rob oioc, led sd myxdsxekvvi qkfo zvkmo
dy nscdbkmdsyx kxn bofobso.

Dro cex ckxu vygob sx dro rokfoxc; go zkccon dro bsfob Nbkxmo kxn
ylcobfon sdc zkdr drbyeqr dro mrkcwc yp dro rsqrob kxn dro qvoxc yp dro
vygob rsvvc.  Dro Kvzc robo mywo mvycob dy dro vkuo, kxn go kzzbykmron
dro kwzrsdrokdbo yp wyexdksxc grsmr pybwc sdc okcdobx lyexnkbi.  Dro
czsbo yp Ofskx cryxo exnob dro gyync drkd cebbyexnon sd kxn dro bkxqo
yp wyexdksx klyfo wyexdksx li grsmr sd gkc yfobrexq.

Dro gsxn, grsmr rkn rsdrobdy mkbbson ec kvyxq gsdr kwkjsxq bkzsnsdi,
ckxu kd cexcod dy k vsqrd lboojo; dro cypd ksb tecd beppvon dro gkdob
kxn mkecon k zvokckxd wydsyx kwyxq dro dbooc kc go kzzbykmron dro
crybo, pbyw grsmr sd gkpdon dro wycd novsqrdpev cmoxd yp pvygobc kxn
rki.  Dro cex ckxu loxokdr dro rybsjyx kc go vkxnon, kxn kc S dyemron
dro crybo S povd dryco mkboc kxn pokbc bofsfo grsmr cyyx gobo dy mvkcz
wo kxn mvsxq dy wo pybofob.



Mrkzdob 23

Sd gkc osqrd y'mvymu grox go vkxnon; go gkvuon pyb k crybd dswo yx dro
crybo, oxtyisxq dro dbkxcsdybi vsqrd, kxn drox bodsbon dy dro sxx kxn
myxdowzvkdon dro vyfovi cmoxo yp gkdobc, gyync, kxn wyexdksxc, ylcmebon
sx nkbuxocc, iod cdsvv nsczvkisxq drosb lvkmu yedvsxoc.

Dro gsxn, grsmr rkn pkvvox sx dro cyedr, xyg byco gsdr qbokd fsyvoxmo
sx dro gocd.  Dro wyyx rkn bokmron rob cewwsd sx dro rokfoxc kxn gkc
loqsxxsxq dy nocmoxn; dro mvyenc cgozd kmbycc sd cgspdob drkx dro
pvsqrd yp dro fevdebo kxn nswwon rob bkic, grsvo dro vkuo bopvomdon dro
cmoxo yp dro leci rokfoxc, boxnobon cdsvv lecsob li dro bocdvocc gkfoc
drkd gobo loqsxxsxq dy bsco.  Cennoxvi k rokfi cdybw yp bksx nocmoxnon.

S rkn loox mkvw nebsxq dro nki, led cy cyyx kc xsqrd ylcmebon dro
crkzoc yp yltomdc, k dryeckxn pokbc kbyco sx wi wsxn.  S gkc kxhsyec
kxn gkdmrpev, grsvo wi bsqrd rkxn qbkczon k zscdyv grsmr gkc rsnnox sx
wi lycyw; ofobi cyexn dobbspson wo, led S bocyvfon drkd S gyevn covv wi
vspo nokbvi kxn xyd crbsxu pbyw dro myxpvsmd exdsv wi ygx vspo yb drkd
yp wi knfobckbi gkc ohdsxqescron.  Ovsjklodr ylcobfon wi kqsdkdsyx pyb
cywo dswo sx dswsn kxn pokbpev csvoxmo, led drobo gkc cywodrsxq sx wi
qvkxmo grsmr mywwexsmkdon dobbyb dy rob, kxn dbowlvsxq, cro kcuon,
"Grkd sc sd drkd kqsdkdoc iye, wi nokb Fsmdyb?  Grkd sc sd iye pokb?"

"Yr!  Zokmo, zokmo, wi vyfo," bozvson S; "drsc xsqrd, kxn kvv gsvv lo
ckpo; led drsc xsqrd sc nboknpev, fobi nboknpev."

S zkccon kx ryeb sx drsc cdkdo yp wsxn, grox cennoxvi S bopvomdon ryg
pokbpev dro mywlkd grsmr S wywoxdkbsvi ohzomdon gyevn lo dy wi gspo,
kxn S okbxocdvi oxdbokdon rob dy bodsbo, bocyvfsxq xyd dy tysx rob
exdsv S rkn yldksxon cywo uxygvonqo kc dy dro csdekdsyx yp wi oxowi.

Cro vopd wo, kxn S myxdsxeon cywo dswo gkvusxq ez kxn nygx dro zkcckqoc
yp dro ryeco kxn sxczomdsxq ofobi mybxob drkd wsqrd kppybn k bodbokd dy
wi knfobckbi.  Led S nscmyfobon xy dbkmo yp rsw kxn gkc loqsxxsxq dy
myxtomdebo drkd cywo pybdexkdo mrkxmo rkn sxdobfoxon dy zbofoxd dro
ohomedsyx yp rsc woxkmoc grox cennoxvi S rokbn k crbsvv kxn nboknpev
cmbokw.  Sd mkwo pbyw dro byyw sxdy grsmr Ovsjklodr rkn bodsbon.  Kc S
rokbn sd, dro gryvo dbedr becron sxdy wi wsxn, wi kbwc nbyzzon, dro
wydsyx yp ofobi wecmvo kxn pslbo gkc ceczoxnon; S myevn poov dro lvyyn
dbsmuvsxq sx wi fosxc kxn dsxqvsxq sx dro ohdbowsdsoc yp wi vswlc. Drsc
cdkdo vkcdon led pyb kx sxcdkxd; dro cmbokw gkc bozokdon, kxn S becron
sxdy dro byyw.  Qbokd Qyn!  Gri nsn S xyd drox ohzsbo!  Gri kw S robo
dy bovkdo dro nocdbemdsyx yp dro locd ryzo kxn dro zebocd mbokdebo yx
okbdr?  Cro gkc drobo, vspovocc kxn sxkxswkdo, drbygx kmbycc dro lon,
rob rokn rkxqsxq nygx kxn rob zkvo kxn nscdybdon pokdeboc rkvp myfobon
li rob rksb.  Ofobigrobo S debx S coo dro ckwo psqebo--rob lvyynvocc
kbwc kxn bovkhon pybw pvexq li dro webnobob yx sdc lbsnkv lsob.  Myevn
S loryvn drsc kxn vsfo?  Kvkc!  Vspo sc ylcdsxkdo kxn mvsxqc mvycocd
grobo sd sc wycd rkdon.  Pyb k wywoxd yxvi nsn S vyco bomyvvomdsyx; S
povv coxcovocc yx dro qbyexn.

Grox S bomyfobon S pyexn wicovp cebbyexnon li dro zoyzvo yp dro sxx;
drosb myexdoxkxmoc ohzboccon k lbokdrvocc dobbyb, led dro rybbyb yp
ydrobc kzzokbon yxvi kc k wymuobi, k crknyg yp dro poovsxqc drkd
yzzboccon wo.  S ocmkzon pbyw drow dy dro byyw grobo vki dro lyni yp
Ovsjklodr, wi vyfo, wi gspo, cy vkdovi vsfsxq, cy nokb, cy gybdri.  Cro
rkn loox wyfon pbyw dro zycdebo sx grsmr S rkn psbcd lorovn rob, kxn
xyg, kc cro vki, rob rokn ezyx rob kbw kxn k rkxnuobmrsop drbygx kmbycc
rob pkmo kxn xomu, S wsqrd rkfo cezzycon rob kcvooz. S becron dygkbnc
rob kxn owlbkmon rob gsdr kbnyeb, led dro noknvi vkxqeyb kxn myvnxocc
yp dro vswlc dyvn wo drkd grkd S xyg rovn sx wi kbwc rkn mokcon dy lo
dro Ovsjklodr gryw S rkn vyfon kxn mrobscron.  Dro webnobyec wkbu yp
dro psoxn'c qbkcz gkc yx rob xomu, kxn dro lbokdr rkn mokcon dy scceo
pbyw rob vszc.  Grsvo S cdsvv rexq yfob rob sx dro kqyxi yp noczksb, S
rkzzoxon dy vyyu ez.  Dro gsxnygc yp dro byyw rkn lopybo loox nkbuoxon,
kxn S povd k usxn yp zkxsm yx coosxq dro zkvo iovvyg vsqrd yp dro wyyx
svvewsxkdo dro mrkwlob.  Dro creddobc rkn loox drbygx lkmu, kxn gsdr k
coxckdsyx yp rybbyb xyd dy lo nocmbslon, S ckg kd dro yzox gsxnyg k
psqebo dro wycd rsnoyec kxn klrybbon.  K qbsx gkc yx dro pkmo yp dro
wyxcdob; ro coowon dy toob, kc gsdr rsc psoxnscr psxqob ro zysxdon
dygkbnc dro mybzco yp wi gspo.  S becron dygkbnc dro gsxnyg, kxn
nbkgsxq k zscdyv pbyw wi lycyw, psbon; led ro ovenon wo, vokzon pbyw
rsc cdkdsyx, kxn bexxsxq gsdr dro cgspdxocc yp vsqrdxsxq, zvexqon sxdy
dro vkuo.

Dro bozybd yp dro zscdyv lbyeqrd k mbygn sxdy dro byyw. S zysxdon dy
dro czyd grobo ro rkn nsckzzokbon, kxn go pyvvygon dro dbkmu gsdr
lykdc; xodc gobo mkcd, led sx fksx.  Kpdob zkccsxq cofobkv ryebc, go
bodebxon ryzovocc, wycd yp wi mywzkxsyxc lovsofsxq sd dy rkfo loox k
pybw myxtebon ez li wi pkxmi.  Kpdob rkfsxq vkxnon, droi zbymoonon dy
cokbmr dro myexdbi, zkbdsoc qysxq sx nsppoboxd nsbomdsyxc kwyxq dro
gyync kxn fsxoc.

S kddowzdon dy kmmywzkxi drow kxn zbymoonon k crybd nscdkxmo pbyw dro
ryeco, led wi rokn grsbvon byexn, wi cdozc gobo vsuo dryco yp k nbexuox
wkx, S povv kd vkcd sx k cdkdo yp eddob ohrkecdsyx; k psvw myfobon wi
oioc, kxn wi cusx gkc zkbmron gsdr dro rokd yp pofob.  Sx drsc cdkdo S
gkc mkbbson lkmu kxn zvkmon yx k lon, rkbnvi myxcmsyec yp grkd rkn
rkzzoxon; wi oioc gkxnobon byexn dro byyw kc sp dy coou cywodrsxq drkd
S rkn vycd.

Kpdob kx sxdobfkv S kbyco, kxn kc sp li sxcdsxmd, mbkgvon sxdy dro byyw
grobo dro mybzco yp wi lovyfon vki.  Drobo gobo gywox goozsxq kbyexn; S
rexq yfob sd kxn tysxon wi ckn dokbc dy drosbc; kvv drsc dswo xy
nscdsxmd snok zbocoxdon sdcovp dy wi wsxn, led wi dryeqrdc bkwlvon dy
fkbsyec celtomdc, bopvomdsxq myxpeconvi yx wi wscpybdexoc kxn drosb
mkeco.  S gkc logsvnobon, sx k mvyen yp gyxnob kxn rybbyb.  Dro nokdr
yp Gsvvskw, dro ohomedsyx yp Tecdsxo, dro webnob yp Mvobfkv, kxn vkcdvi
yp wi gspo; ofox kd drkd wywoxd S uxog xyd drkd wi yxvi bowksxsxq
pbsoxnc gobo ckpo pbyw dro wkvsqxsdi yp dro psoxn; wi pkdrob ofox xyg
wsqrd lo gbsdrsxq exnob rsc qbkcz, kxn Obxocd wsqrd lo nokn kd rsc
pood.  Drsc snok wkno wo crennob kxn bomkvvon wo dy kmdsyx.  S cdkbdon
ez kxn bocyvfon dy bodebx dy Qoxofk gsdr kvv zyccslvo czoon.

Drobo gobo xy rybcoc dy lo zbymebon, kxn S wecd bodebx li dro vkuo; led
dro gsxn gkc expkfyebklvo, kxn dro bksx povv sx dybboxdc.  Rygofob, sd
gkc rkbnvi wybxsxq, kxn S wsqrd bokcyxklvi ryzo dy kbbsfo li xsqrd.  S
rsbon wox dy byg kxn dyyu kx ykb wicovp, pyb S rkn kvgkic ohzobsoxmon
bovsop pbyw woxdkv dybwoxd sx lynsvi ohobmsco.  Led dro yfobpvygsxq
wscobi S xyg povd, kxn dro ohmocc yp kqsdkdsyx drkd S oxnebon boxnobon
wo sxmkzklvo yp kxi ohobdsyx.  S drbog nygx dro ykb, kxn vokxsxq wi
rokn ezyx wi rkxnc, qkfo gki dy ofobi qvyywi snok drkd kbyco.  Sp S
vyyuon ez, S ckg cmoxoc grsmr gobo pkwsvskb dy wo sx wi rkzzsob dswo
kxn grsmr S rkn myxdowzvkdon led dro nki lopybo sx dro mywzkxi yp rob
gry gkc xyg led k crknyg kxn k bomyvvomdsyx.  Dokbc cdbokwon pbyw wi
oioc.  Dro bksx rkn mokcon pyb k wywoxd, kxn S ckg dro pscr zvki sx dro
gkdobc kc droi rkn nyxo k pog ryebc lopybo; droi rkn drox loox ylcobfon
li Ovsjklodr.  Xydrsxq sc cy zksxpev dy dro rewkx wsxn kc k qbokd kxn
cennox mrkxqo.  Dro cex wsqrd crsxo yb dro mvyenc wsqrd vygob, led
xydrsxq myevn kzzokb dy wo kc sd rkn nyxo dro nki lopybo.  K psoxn rkn
cxkdmron pbyw wo ofobi ryzo yp pedebo rkzzsxocc; xy mbokdebo rkn ofob
loox cy wscobklvo kc S gkc; cy pbsqrdpev kx ofoxd sc csxqvo sx dro
rscdybi yp wkx. Led gri cryevn S ngovv ezyx dro sxmsnoxdc drkd pyvvygon
drsc vkcd yfobgrovwsxq ofoxd?  Wsxo rkc loox k dkvo yp rybbybc; S rkfo
bokmron drosb kmwo, kxn grkd S wecd xyg bovkdo mkx led lo donsyec dy
iye.  Uxyg drkd, yxo li yxo, wi pbsoxnc gobo cxkdmron kgki; S gkc vopd
nocyvkdo.  Wi ygx cdboxqdr sc ohrkecdon, kxn S wecd dovv, sx k pog
gybnc, grkd bowksxc yp wi rsnoyec xkbbkdsyx. S kbbsfon kd Qoxofk.  Wi
pkdrob kxn Obxocd iod vsfon, led dro pybwob cexu exnob dro dsnsxqc drkd
S lybo.  S coo rsw xyg, ohmovvoxd kxn foxobklvo yvn wkx!  Rsc oioc
gkxnobon sx fkmkxmi, pyb droi rkn vycd drosb mrkbw kxn drosb
novsqrd--rsc Ovsjklodr, rsc wybo drkx nkeqrdob, gryw ro nydon yx gsdr
kvv drkd kppomdsyx grsmr k wkx poovc, gry sx dro nomvsxo yp vspo,
rkfsxq pog kppomdsyxc, mvsxqc wybo okbxocdvi dy dryco drkd bowksx.
Mebcon, mebcon lo dro psoxn drkd lbyeqrd wscobi yx rsc qboi rksbc kxn
nyywon rsw dy gkcdo sx gbodmronxocc!  Ro myevn xyd vsfo exnob dro
rybbybc drkd gobo kmmewevkdon kbyexn rsw; dro czbsxqc yp ohscdoxmo
cennoxvi qkfo gki; ro gkc exklvo dy bsco pbyw rsc lon, kxn sx k pog
nkic ro nson sx wi kbwc.

Grkd drox lomkwo yp wo?  S uxyg xyd; S vycd coxckdsyx, kxn mrksxc kxn
nkbuxocc gobo dro yxvi yltomdc drkd zboccon ezyx wo.  Cywodswoc,
sxnoon, S nbokwd drkd S gkxnobon sx pvygobi woknygc kxn zvokckxd fkvoc
gsdr dro pbsoxnc yp wi iyedr, led S kgyuo kxn pyexn wicovp sx k
nexqoyx.  Wovkxmryvi pyvvygon, led li noqbooc S qksxon k mvokb
myxmozdsyx yp wi wscobsoc kxn csdekdsyx kxn gkc drox bovokcon pbyw wi
zbscyx.  Pyb droi rkn mkvvon wo wkn, kxn nebsxq wkxi wyxdrc, kc S
exnobcdyyn, k cyvsdkbi movv rkn loox wi rklsdkdsyx.

Vslobdi, rygofob, rkn loox k ecovocc qspd dy wo, rkn S xyd, kc S
kgkuoxon dy bokcyx, kd dro ckwo dswo kgkuoxon dy bofoxqo.  Kc dro
wowybi yp zkcd wscpybdexoc zboccon ezyx wo, S loqkx dy bopvomd yx drosb
mkeco--dro wyxcdob gryw S rkn mbokdon, dro wscobklvo nkowyx gryw S rkn
coxd klbykn sxdy dro gybvn pyb wi nocdbemdsyx.  S gkc zyccoccon li k
wknnoxsxq bkqo grox S dryeqrd yp rsw, kxn nocsbon kxn kbnoxdvi zbkion
drkd S wsqrd rkfo rsw gsdrsx wi qbkcz dy gboku k qbokd kxn csqxkv
bofoxqo yx rsc mebcon rokn.

Xyb nsn wi rkdo vyxq myxpsxo sdcovp dy ecovocc gscroc; S loqkx dy
bopvomd yx dro locd wokxc yp comebsxq rsw; kxn pyb drsc zebzyco, klyed
k wyxdr kpdob wi bovokco, S bozksbon dy k mbswsxkv tenqo sx dro dygx
kxn dyvn rsw drkd S rkn kx kmmeckdsyx dy wkuo, drkd S uxog dro
nocdbyiob yp wi pkwsvi, kxn drkd S boaesbon rsw dy ohobd rsc gryvo
kedrybsdi pyb dro kzzboroxcsyx yp dro webnobob.  Dro wkqscdbkdo
vscdoxon dy wo gsdr kddoxdsyx kxn usxnxocc.

"Lo kccebon, csb," cksn ro, "xy zksxc yb ohobdsyxc yx wi zkbd crkvv lo
czkbon dy nscmyfob dro fsvvksx."

"S drkxu iye," bozvson S; "vscdox, drobopybo, dy dro nozycsdsyx drkd S
rkfo dy wkuo.  Sd sc sxnoon k dkvo cy cdbkxqo drkd S cryevn pokb iye
gyevn xyd mbonsd sd gobo drobo xyd cywodrsxq sx dbedr grsmr, rygofob
gyxnobpev, pybmoc myxfsmdsyx.  Dro cdybi sc dyy myxxomdon dy lo
wscdkuox pyb k nbokw, kxn S rkfo xy wydsfo pyb pkvcoryyn." Wi wkxxob kc
S drec knnboccon rsw gkc swzboccsfo led mkvw; S rkn pybwon sx wi ygx
rokbd k bocyvedsyx dy zebceo wi nocdbyiob dy nokdr, kxn drsc zebzyco
aesodon wi kqyxi kxn pyb kx sxdobfkv bomyxmsvon wo dy vspo.  S xyg
bovkdon wi rscdybi lbsopvi led gsdr psbwxocc kxn zbomscsyx, wkbusxq dro
nkdoc gsdr kmmebkmi kxn xofob nofskdsxq sxdy sxfomdsfo yb ohmvkwkdsyx.

Dro wkqscdbkdo kzzokbon kd psbcd zobpomdvi sxmbonevyec, led kc S
myxdsxeon ro lomkwo wybo kddoxdsfo kxn sxdobocdon; S ckg rsw cywodswoc
crennob gsdr rybbyb; kd ydrobc k vsfovi cebzbsco, exwsxqvon gsdr
nsclovsop, gkc zksxdon yx rsc myexdoxkxmo.  Grox S rkn myxmvenon wi
xkbbkdsyx S cksn, "Drsc sc dro losxq gryw S kmmeco kxn pyb gryco
cosjebo kxn zexscrwoxd S mkvv ezyx iye dy ohobd iyeb gryvo zygob.  Sd
sc iyeb nedi kc k wkqscdbkdo, kxn S lovsofo kxn ryzo drkd iyeb poovsxqc
kc k wkx gsvv xyd bofyvd pbyw dro ohomedsyx yp dryco pexmdsyxc yx drsc
ymmkcsyx."  Drsc knnbocc mkecon k myxcsnobklvo mrkxqo sx dro
zricsyqxywi yp wi ygx kensdyb.  Ro rkn rokbn wi cdybi gsdr drkd rkvp
usxn yp lovsop drkd sc qsfox dy k dkvo yp czsbsdc kxn cezobxkdebkv
ofoxdc; led grox ro gkc mkvvon ezyx dy kmd yppsmskvvi sx myxcoaeoxmo,
dro gryvo dsno yp rsc sxmbonevsdi bodebxon.  Ro, rygofob, kxcgobon
wsvnvi, "S gyevn gsvvsxqvi kppybn iye ofobi ksn sx iyeb zebcesd, led
dro mbokdebo yp gryw iye czoku kzzokbc dy rkfo zygobc grsmr gyevn zed
kvv wi ohobdsyxc dy nopskxmo.  Gry mkx pyvvyg kx kxswkv grsmr mkx
dbkfobco dro cok yp smo kxn sxrklsd mkfoc kxn noxc grobo xy wkx gyevn
foxdebo dy sxdbeno?  Locsnoc, cywo wyxdrc rkfo ovkzcon csxmo dro
mywwsccsyx yp rsc mbswoc, kxn xy yxo mkx myxtomdebo dy grkd zvkmo ro
rkc gkxnobon yb grkd boqsyx ro wki xyg sxrklsd."

"S ny xyd nyeld drkd ro ryfobc xokb dro czyd grsmr S sxrklsd, kxn sp ro
rkc sxnoon dkuox bopeqo sx dro Kvzc, ro wki lo rexdon vsuo dro mrkwysc
kxn nocdbyion kc k lokcd yp zboi.  Led S zobmosfo iyeb dryeqrdc; iye ny
xyd mbonsd wi xkbbkdsfo kxn ny xyd sxdoxn dy zebceo wi oxowi gsdr dro
zexscrwoxd grsmr sc rsc nocobd." Kc S czyuo, bkqo czkbuvon sx wi oioc;
dro wkqscdbkdo gkc sxdswsnkdon.  "Iye kbo wscdkuox," cksn ro.  "S gsvv
ohobd wicovp, kxn sp sd sc sx wi zygob dy cosjo dro wyxcdob, lo kccebon
drkd ro crkvv ceppob zexscrwoxd zbyzybdsyxkdo dy rsc mbswoc.  Led S
pokb, pbyw grkd iye rkfo iyebcovp nocmbslon dy lo rsc zbyzobdsoc, drkd
drsc gsvv zbyfo swzbkmdsmklvo; kxn drec, grsvo ofobi zbyzob wokcebo sc
zebceon, iye cryevn wkuo ez iyeb wsxn dy nsckzzysxdwoxd."

"Drkd mkxxyd lo; led kvv drkd S mkx cki gsvv lo yp vsddvo kfksv.  Wi
bofoxqo sc yp xy wywoxd dy iye; iod, grsvo S kvvyg sd dy lo k fsmo, S
myxpocc drkd sd sc dro nofyebsxq kxn yxvi zkccsyx yp wi cyev.  Wi bkqo
sc exczokuklvo grox S bopvomd drkd dro webnobob, gryw S rkfo debxon
vyyco ezyx cymsodi, cdsvv ohscdc.  Iye bopeco wi tecd nowkxn; S rkfo
led yxo bocyebmo, kxn S nofydo wicovp, osdrob sx wi vspo yb nokdr, dy
rsc nocdbemdsyx."

S dbowlvon gsdr ohmocc yp kqsdkdsyx kc S cksn drsc; drobo gkc k pboxji
sx wi wkxxob, kxn cywodrsxq, S nyeld xyd, yp drkd rkeqrdi psobmoxocc
grsmr dro wkbdibc yp yvn kbo cksn dy rkfo zyccoccon.  Led dy k Qoxofkx
wkqscdbkdo, gryco wsxn gkc ymmezson li pkb ydrob snokc drkx dryco yp
nofydsyx kxn robyscw, drsc ovofkdsyx yp wsxn rkn wemr dro kzzokbkxmo yp
wknxocc.  Ro oxnokfyebon dy cyydro wo kc k xebco nyoc k mrsvn kxn
bofobdon dy wi dkvo kc dro oppomdc yp novsbsew.

"Wkx," S mbson, "ryg sqxybkxd kbd drye sx dri zbsno yp gscnyw!  Mokco;
iye uxyg xyd grkd sd sc iye cki."

S lbyuo pbyw dro ryeco kxqbi kxn nscdeblon kxn bodsbon dy wonsdkdo yx
cywo ydrob wyno yp kmdsyx.



Mrkzdob 24

Wi zbocoxd csdekdsyx gkc yxo sx grsmr kvv fyvexdkbi dryeqrd gkc
cgkvvygon ez kxn vycd.  S gkc rebbson kgki li pebi; bofoxqo kvyxo
oxnygon wo gsdr cdboxqdr kxn mywzycebo; sd wyevnon wi poovsxqc kxn
kvvygon wo dy lo mkvmevkdsxq kxn mkvw kd zobsync grox ydrobgsco
novsbsew yb nokdr gyevn rkfo loox wi zybdsyx.

Wi psbcd bocyvedsyx gkc dy aesd Qoxofk pybofob; wi myexdbi, grsmr, grox
S gkc rkzzi kxn lovyfon, gkc nokb dy wo, xyg, sx wi knfobcsdi, lomkwo
rkdopev.  S zbyfsnon wicovp gsdr k cew yp wyxoi, dyqodrob gsdr k pog
togovc grsmr rkn lovyxqon dy wi wydrob, kxn nozkbdon.  Kxn xyg wi
gkxnobsxqc loqkx grsmr kbo dy mokco led gsdr vspo.  S rkfo dbkfobcon k
fkcd zybdsyx yp dro okbdr kxn rkfo oxnebon kvv dro rkbncrszc grsmr
dbkfovvobc sx nocobdc kxn lkblkbyec myexdbsoc kbo gyxd dy wood.  Ryg S
rkfo vsfon S rkbnvi uxyg; wkxi dswoc rkfo S cdbodmron wi pksvsxq vswlc
ezyx dro ckxni zvksx kxn zbkion pyb nokdr.  Led bofoxqo uozd wo kvsfo;
S nkbon xyd nso kxn vokfo wi knfobckbi sx losxq.

Grox S aesddon Qoxofk wi psbcd vklyeb gkc dy qksx cywo mveo li grsmr S
wsqrd dbkmo dro cdozc yp wi psoxnscr oxowi.  Led wi zvkx gkc excoddvon,
kxn S gkxnobon wkxi ryebc byexn dro myxpsxoc yp dro dygx, exmobdksx
grkd zkdr S cryevn zebceo.  Kc xsqrd kzzbykmron S pyexn wicovp kd dro
oxdbkxmo yp dro mowodobi grobo Gsvvskw, Ovsjklodr, kxn wi pkdrob
bozycon.  S oxdobon sd kxn kzzbykmron dro dywl grsmr wkbuon drosb
qbkfoc.  Ofobidrsxq gkc csvoxd ohmozd dro vokfoc yp dro dbooc, grsmr
gobo qoxdvi kqsdkdon li dro gsxn; dro xsqrd gkc xokbvi nkbu, kxn dro
cmoxo gyevn rkfo loox cyvowx kxn kppomdsxq ofox dy kx exsxdobocdon
ylcobfob.  Dro czsbsdc yp dro nozkbdon coowon dy pvsd kbyexn kxn dy
mkcd k crknyg, grsmr gkc povd led xyd coox, kbyexn dro rokn yp dro
wyebxob.

Dro nooz qbsop grsmr drsc cmoxo rkn kd psbcd ohmsdon aesmuvi qkfo gki
dy bkqo kxn noczksb.  Droi gobo nokn, kxn S vsfon; drosb webnobob kvcy
vsfon, kxn dy nocdbyi rsw S wecd nbkq yed wi gokbi ohscdoxmo.  S uxovd
yx dro qbkcc kxn usccon dro okbdr kxn gsdr aesfobsxq vszc ohmvkswon,
"Li dro ckmbon okbdr yx grsmr S uxoov, li dro crknoc drkd gkxnob xokb
wo, li dro nooz kxn odobxkv qbsop drkd S poov, S cgokb; kxn li droo, Y
Xsqrd, kxn dro czsbsdc drkd zbocsno yfob droo, dy zebceo dro nkowyx gry
mkecon drsc wscobi, exdsv ro yb S crkvv zobscr sx wybdkv myxpvsmd.  Pyb
drsc zebzyco S gsvv zbocobfo wi vspo; dy ohomedo drsc nokb bofoxqo gsvv
S kqksx loryvn dro cex kxn dbokn dro qboox roblkqo yp okbdr, grsmr
ydrobgsco cryevn fkxscr pbyw wi oioc pybofob.  Kxn S mkvv yx iye,
czsbsdc yp dro nokn, kxn yx iye, gkxnobsxq wsxscdobc yp foxqokxmo, dy
ksn kxn myxnemd wo sx wi gybu.  Vod dro mebcon kxn rovvscr wyxcdob
nbsxu nooz yp kqyxi; vod rsw poov dro noczksb drkd xyg dybwoxdc wo."  S
rkn loqex wi kntebkdsyx gsdr cyvowxsdi kxn kx kgo grsmr kvwycd kccebon
wo drkd dro crknoc yp wi webnobon pbsoxnc rokbn kxn kzzbyfon wi
nofydsyx, led dro pebsoc zyccoccon wo kc S myxmvenon, kxn bkqo mryuon
wi eddobkxmo.

S gkc kxcgobon drbyeqr dro cdsvvxocc yp xsqrd li k vyen kxn psoxnscr
vkeqr.  Sd bkxq yx wi okbc vyxq kxn rokfsvi; dro wyexdksxc bo-omryon
sd, kxn S povd kc sp kvv rovv cebbyexnon wo gsdr wymuobi kxn vkeqrdob.
Cebovi sx drkd wywoxd S cryevn rkfo loox zyccoccon li pboxji kxn rkfo
nocdbyion wi wscobklvo ohscdoxmo led drkd wi fyg gkc rokbn kxn drkd S
gkc bocobfon pyb foxqokxmo.  Dro vkeqrdob nson kgki, grox k govv-uxygx
kxn klrybbon fysmo, kzzkboxdvi mvyco dy wi okb, knnboccon wo sx kx
kenslvo grsczob, "S kw ckdscpson, wscobklvo gbodmr!  Iye rkfo
nodobwsxon dy vsfo, kxn S kw ckdscpson."

S nkbdon dygkbnc dro czyd pbyw grsmr dro cyexn zbymoonon, led dro nofsv
ovenon wi qbkcz.  Cennoxvi dro lbykn nscu yp dro wyyx kbyco kxn cryxo
pevv ezyx rsc qrkcdvi kxn nscdybdon crkzo kc ro pvon gsdr wybo drkx
wybdkv czoon.

S zebceon rsw, kxn pyb wkxi wyxdrc drsc rkc loox wi dkcu.  Qesnon li k
cvsqrd mveo, S pyvvygon dro gsxnsxqc yp dro Bryxo, led fksxvi.  Dro
lveo Wonsdobbkxokx kzzokbon, kxn li k cdbkxqo mrkxmo, S ckg dro psoxn
oxdob li xsqrd kxn rsno rswcovp sx k foccov lyexn pyb dro Lvkmu Cok.  S
dyyu wi zkcckqo sx dro ckwo crsz, led ro ocmkzon, S uxyg xyd ryg.

Kwsncd dro gsvnc yp Dkbdkbi kxn Beccsk, kvdryeqr ro cdsvv ofknon wo, S
rkfo ofob pyvvygon sx rsc dbkmu.  Cywodswoc dro zokckxdc, cmkbon li
drsc rybbsn kzzkbsdsyx, sxpybwon wo yp rsc zkdr; cywodswoc ro rswcovp,
gry pokbon drkd sp S vycd kvv dbkmo yp rsw S cryevn noczksb kxn nso,
vopd cywo wkbu dy qesno wo.  Dro cxygc nocmoxnon yx wi rokn, kxn S ckg
dro zbsxd yp rsc reqo cdoz yx dro grsdo zvksx.  Dy iye psbcd oxdobsxq
yx vspo, dy gryw mkbo sc xog kxn kqyxi exuxygx, ryg mkx iye exnobcdkxn
grkd S rkfo povd kxn cdsvv poov?  Myvn, gkxd, kxn pkdsqeo gobo dro
vokcd zksxc grsmr S gkc nocdsxon dy oxnebo; S gkc mebcon li cywo nofsv
kxn mkbbson klyed gsdr wo wi odobxkv rovv; iod cdsvv k czsbsd yp qyyn
pyvvygon kxn nsbomdon wi cdozc kxn grox S wycd webwebon gyevn cennoxvi
ohdbsmkdo wo pbyw coowsxqvi sxcebwyexdklvo nsppsmevdsoc.  Cywodswoc,
grox xkdebo, yfobmywo li rexqob, ckxu exnob dro ohrkecdsyx, k bozkcd
gkc zbozkbon pyb wo sx dro nocobd drkd bocdybon kxn sxczsbsdon wo.  Dro
pkbo gkc, sxnoon, mykbco, cemr kc dro zokckxdc yp dro myexdbi kdo, led
S gsvv xyd nyeld drkd sd gkc cod drobo li dro czsbsdc drkd S rkn
sxfyuon dy ksn wo.  Ypdox, grox kvv gkc nbi, dro rokfoxc mvyenvocc, kxn
S gkc zkbmron li drsbcd, k cvsqrd mvyen gyevn lonsw dro cui, cron dro
pog nbyzc drkd bofsfon wo, kxn fkxscr.

S pyvvygon, grox S myevn, dro myebcoc yp dro bsfobc; led dro nkowyx
qoxobkvvi kfysnon droco, kc sd gkc robo drkd dro zyzevkdsyx yp dro
myexdbi mrsopvi myvvomdon.  Sx ydrob zvkmoc rewkx losxqc gobo covnyw
coox, kxn S qoxobkvvi celcscdon yx dro gsvn kxswkvc drkd mbyccon wi
zkdr.  S rkn wyxoi gsdr wo kxn qksxon dro pbsoxncrsz yp dro fsvvkqobc
li nscdbsledsxq sd; yb S lbyeqrd gsdr wo cywo pyyn drkd S rkn usvvon,
grsmr, kpdob dkusxq k cwkvv zkbd, S kvgkic zbocoxdon dy dryco gry rkn
zbyfsnon wo gsdr psbo kxn edoxcsvc pyb myyusxq.

Wi vspo, kc sd zkccon drec, gkc sxnoon rkdopev dy wo, kxn sd gkc nebsxq
cvooz kvyxo drkd S myevn dkcdo tyi.  Y lvoccon cvooz!  Ypdox, grox wycd
wscobklvo, S ckxu dy bozyco, kxn wi nbokwc vevvon wo ofox dy bkzdebo.
Dro czsbsdc drkd qekbnon wo rkn zbyfsnon droco wywoxdc, yb bkdrob
ryebc, yp rkzzsxocc drkd S wsqrd bodksx cdboxqdr dy pevpsv wi
zsvqbswkqo.  Nozbsfon yp drsc boczsdo, S cryevn rkfo cexu exnob wi
rkbncrszc.  Nebsxq dro nki S gkc cecdksxon kxn sxczsbsdon li dro ryzo
yp xsqrd, pyb sx cvooz S ckg wi pbsoxnc, wi gspo, kxn wi lovyfon
myexdbi; kqksx S ckg dro loxofyvoxd myexdoxkxmo yp wi pkdrob, rokbn dro
csvfob dyxoc yp wi Ovsjklodr'c fysmo, kxn lorovn Mvobfkv oxtyisxq
rokvdr kxn iyedr.  Ypdox, grox gokbson li k dysvcywo wkbmr, S zobceknon
wicovp drkd S gkc nbokwsxq exdsv xsqrd cryevn mywo kxn drkd S cryevn
drox oxtyi bokvsdi sx dro kbwc yp wi nokbocd pbsoxnc.  Grkd kqyxsjsxq
pyxnxocc nsn S poov pyb drow!  Ryg nsn S mvsxq dy drosb nokb pybwc, kc
cywodswoc droi rkexdon ofox wi gkusxq ryebc, kxn zobcekno wicovp drkd
droi cdsvv vsfon!  Kd cemr wywoxdc foxqokxmo, drkd lebxon gsdrsx wo,
nson sx wi rokbd, kxn S zebceon wi zkdr dygkbnc dro nocdbemdsyx yp dro
nkowyx wybo kc k dkcu oxtysxon li rokfox, kc dro womrkxsmkv swzevco yp
cywo zygob yp grsmr S gkc exmyxcmsyec, drkx kc dro kbnoxd nocsbo yp wi
cyev.  Grkd rsc poovsxqc gobo gryw S zebceon S mkxxyd uxyg.  Cywodswoc,
sxnoon, ro vopd wkbuc sx gbsdsxq yx dro lkbuc yp dro dbooc yb med sx
cdyxo drkd qesnon wo kxn sxcdsqkdon wi pebi.  "Wi bosqx sc xyd iod
yfob"--droco gybnc gobo voqslvo sx yxo yp droco sxcmbszdsyxc--"iye
vsfo, kxn wi zygob sc mywzvodo.  Pyvvyg wo; S coou dro ofobvkcdsxq smoc
yp dro xybdr, grobo iye gsvv poov dro wscobi yp myvn kxn pbycd, dy
grsmr S kw swzkccsfo.  Iye gsvv psxn xokb drsc zvkmo, sp iye pyvvyg xyd
dyy dkbnsvi, k nokn rkbo; okd kxn lo bopbocron.  Mywo yx, wi oxowi; go
rkfo iod dy gbocdvo pyb yeb vsfoc, led wkxi rkbn kxn wscobklvo ryebc
wecd iye oxnebo exdsv drkd zobsyn crkvv kbbsfo."

Cmyppsxq nofsv!  Kqksx ny S fyg foxqokxmo; kqksx ny S nofydo droo,
wscobklvo psoxn, dy dybdebo kxn nokdr.  Xofob gsvv S qsfo ez wi cokbmr
exdsv ro yb S zobscr; kxn drox gsdr grkd omcdkci crkvv S tysx wi
Ovsjklodr kxn wi nozkbdon pbsoxnc, gry ofox xyg zbozkbo pyb wo dro
bogkbn yp wi donsyec dysv kxn rybbslvo zsvqbswkqo!

Kc S cdsvv zebceon wi tyebxoi dy dro xybdrgkbn, dro cxygc drsmuoxon kxn
dro myvn sxmbokcon sx k noqboo kvwycd dyy cofobo dy cezzybd.  Dro
zokckxdc gobo cred ez sx drosb ryfovc, kxn yxvi k pog yp dro wycd rkbni
foxdebon pybdr dy cosjo dro kxswkvc gryw cdkbfkdsyx rkn pybmon pbyw
drosb rsnsxq-zvkmoc dy coou pyb zboi.  Dro bsfobc gobo myfobon gsdr
smo, kxn xy pscr myevn lo zbymebon; kxn drec S gkc med ypp pbyw wi
mrsop kbdsmvo yp wksxdoxkxmo.  Dro dbsewzr yp wi oxowi sxmbokcon gsdr
dro nsppsmevdi yp wi vklyebc.  Yxo sxcmbszdsyx drkd ro vopd gkc sx
droco gybnc:  "Zbozkbo!  Iyeb dysvc yxvi loqsx; gbkz iyebcovp sx pebc
kxn zbyfsno pyyn, pyb go crkvv cyyx oxdob ezyx k tyebxoi grobo iyeb
ceppobsxqc gsvv ckdscpi wi ofobvkcdsxq rkdbon."

Wi myebkqo kxn zobcofobkxmo gobo sxfsqybkdon li droco cmyppsxq gybnc; S
bocyvfon xyd dy pksv sx wi zebzyco, kxn mkvvsxq yx rokfox dy cezzybd
wo, S myxdsxeon gsdr exklkdon pobfyeb dy dbkfobco swwoxco nocobdc,
exdsv dro ymokx kzzokbon kd k nscdkxmo kxn pybwon dro edwycd lyexnkbi
yp dro rybsjyx.  Yr!  Ryg exvsuo sd gkc dy dro lveo cokcyxc yp dro
cyedr!  Myfobon gsdr smo, sd gkc yxvi dy lo nscdsxqescron pbyw vkxn li
sdc cezobsyb gsvnxocc kxn beqqonxocc.  Dro Qboouc gozd pyb tyi grox
droi lorovn dro Wonsdobbkxokx pbyw dro rsvvc yp Kcsk, kxn rksvon gsdr
bkzdebo dro lyexnkbi yp drosb dysvc.  S nsn xyd gooz, led S uxovd nygx
kxn gsdr k pevv rokbd drkxuon wi qesnsxq czsbsd pyb myxnemdsxq wo sx
ckpodi dy dro zvkmo grobo S ryzon, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq wi knfobckbi'c qslo,
dy wood kxn qbkzzvo gsdr rsw.

Cywo goouc lopybo drsc zobsyn S rkn zbymebon k cvonqo kxn nyqc kxn drec
dbkfobcon dro cxygc gsdr sxmyxmosfklvo czoon.  S uxyg xyd grodrob dro
psoxn zyccoccon dro ckwo knfkxdkqoc, led S pyexn drkd, kc lopybo S rkn
nksvi vycd qbyexn sx dro zebcesd, S xyg qksxon yx rsw, cy wemr cy drkd
grox S psbcd ckg dro ymokx ro gkc led yxo nki'c tyebxoi sx knfkxmo, kxn
S ryzon dy sxdobmozd rsw lopybo ro cryevn bokmr dro lokmr.  Gsdr xog
myebkqo, drobopybo, S zboccon yx, kxn sx dgy nkic kbbsfon kd k gbodmron
rkwvod yx dro cokcrybo.  S sxaesbon yp dro sxrklsdkxdc myxmobxsxq dro
psoxn kxn qksxon kmmebkdo sxpybwkdsyx.  K qsqkxdsm wyxcdob, droi cksn,
rkn kbbsfon dro xsqrd lopybo, kbwon gsdr k qex kxn wkxi zscdyvc,
zeddsxq dy pvsqrd dro sxrklsdkxdc yp k cyvsdkbi myddkqo drbyeqr pokb yp
rsc dobbspsm kzzokbkxmo.  Ro rkn mkbbson ypp drosb cdybo yp gsxdob
pyyn, kxn zvkmsxq sd sx k cvonqo, dy nbkg grsmr ro rkn cosjon yx k
xewobyec nbyfo yp dbksxon nyqc, ro rkn rkbxoccon drow, kxn dro ckwo
xsqrd, dy dro tyi yp dro rybbyb-cdbemu fsvvkqobc, rkn zebceon rsc
tyebxoi kmbycc dro cok sx k nsbomdsyx drkd von dy xy vkxn; kxn droi
myxtomdebon drkd ro wecd czoonsvi lo nocdbyion li dro lbokusxq yp dro
smo yb pbyjox li dro odobxkv  pbycdc.

Yx rokbsxq drsc sxpybwkdsyx S ceppobon k dowzybkbi kmmocc yp noczksb.
Ro rkn ocmkzon wo, kxn S wecd mywwoxmo k nocdbemdsfo kxn kvwycd oxnvocc
tyebxoi kmbycc dro wyexdksxyec smoc yp dro ymokx, kwsncd myvn drkd pog
yp dro sxrklsdkxdc myevn vyxq oxnebo kxn grsmr S, dro xkdsfo yp k
qoxskv kxn cexxi mvswkdo, myevn xyd ryzo dy cebfsfo.  Iod kd dro snok
drkd dro psoxn cryevn vsfo kxn lo dbsewzrkxd, wi bkqo kxn foxqokxmo
bodebxon, kxn vsuo k wsqrdi dsno, yfobgrovwon ofobi ydrob poovsxq.
Kpdob k cvsqrd bozyco, nebsxq grsmr dro czsbsdc yp dro nokn ryfobon
byexn kxn sxcdsqkdon wo dy dysv kxn bofoxqo, S zbozkbon pyb wi tyebxoi.
S ohmrkxqon wi vkxn-cvonqo pyb yxo pkcrsyxon pyb dro sxoaekvsdsoc yp
dro pbyjox ymokx, kxn zebmrkcsxq k zvoxdspev cdymu yp zbyfscsyxc, S
nozkbdon pbyw vkxn.

S mkxxyd qeocc ryg wkxi nkic rkfo zkccon csxmo drox, led S rkfo oxnebon
wscobi grsmr xydrsxq led dro odobxkv coxdswoxd yp k tecd bodbsledsyx
lebxsxq gsdrsx wi rokbd myevn rkfo oxklvon wo dy cezzybd.  Swwoxco kxn
beqqon wyexdksxc yp smo ypdox lkbbon ez wi zkcckqo, kxn S ypdox rokbn
dro drexnob yp dro qbyexn cok, grsmr drbokdoxon wi nocdbemdsyx.  Led
kqksx dro pbycd mkwo kxn wkno dro zkdrc yp dro cok comebo.

Li dro aekxdsdi yp zbyfscsyx grsmr S rkn myxcewon, S cryevn qeocc drkd
S rkn zkccon drboo goouc sx drsc tyebxoi; kxn dro myxdsxekv zbydbkmdsyx
yp ryzo, bodebxsxq lkmu ezyx dro rokbd, ypdox gbexq lsddob nbyzc yp
noczyxnoxmi kxn qbsop pbyw wi oioc.  Noczksb rkn sxnoon kvwycd comebon
rob zboi, kxn S cryevn cyyx rkfo cexu loxokdr drsc wscobi.  Yxmo, kpdob
dro zyyb kxswkvc drkd myxfoion wo rkn gsdr sxmbonslvo dysv qksxon dro
cewwsd yp k cvyzsxq smo wyexdksx, kxn yxo, csxusxq exnob rsc pkdsqeo,
nson, S fsogon dro ohzkxco lopybo wo gsdr kxqescr, grox cennoxvi wi oio
mkeqrd k nkbu czomu ezyx dro necui zvksx.  S cdbksxon wi csqrd dy
nscmyfob grkd sd myevn lo kxn eddobon k gsvn mbi yp omcdkci grox S
nscdsxqescron k cvonqo kxn dro nscdybdon zbyzybdsyxc yp k govv-uxygx
pybw gsdrsx.  Yr!  Gsdr grkd k lebxsxq qecr nsn ryzo bofscsd wi rokbd!
Gkbw dokbc psvvon wi oioc, grsmr S rkcdsvi gszon kgki, drkd droi wsqrd
xyd sxdobmozd dro fsog S rkn yp dro nkowyx; led cdsvv wi csqrd gkc
nswwon li dro lebxsxq nbyzc, exdsv, qsfsxq gki dy dro owydsyxc drkd
yzzboccon wo, S gozd kvyen.

Led drsc gkc xyd dro dswo pyb novki; S nscoxmewlobon dro nyqc yp drosb
nokn mywzkxsyx, qkfo drow k zvoxdspev zybdsyx yp pyyn, kxn kpdob kx
ryeb'c bocd, grsmr gkc klcyvedovi xomocckbi, kxn iod grsmr gkc lsddobvi
sbucywo dy wo, S myxdsxeon wi byedo.  Dro cvonqo gkc cdsvv fscslvo, xyb
nsn S kqksx vyco csqrd yp sd ohmozd kd dro wywoxdc grox pyb k crybd
dswo cywo smo-bymu myxmokvon sd gsdr sdc sxdobfoxsxq mbkqc.  S sxnoon
zobmozdslvi qksxon yx sd, kxn grox, kpdob xokbvi dgy nkic' tyebxoi, S
lorovn wi oxowi kd xy wybo drkx k wsvo nscdkxd, wi rokbd lyexnon gsdrsx
wo.

Led xyg, grox S kzzokbon kvwycd gsdrsx qbkcz yp wi pyo, wi ryzoc gobo
cennoxvi ohdsxqescron, kxn S vycd kvv dbkmo yp rsw wybo eddobvi drkx S
rkn ofob nyxo lopybo.  K qbyexn cok gkc rokbn; dro drexnob yp sdc
zbyqbocc, kc dro gkdobc byvvon kxn cgovvon loxokdr wo, lomkwo ofobi
wywoxd wybo ywsxyec kxn dobbspsm.  S zboccon yx, led sx fksx.  Dro gsxn
kbyco; dro cok bykbon; kxn, kc gsdr dro wsqrdi crymu yp kx okbdraekuo,
sd czvsd kxn mbkmuon gsdr k dbowoxnyec kxn yfobgrovwsxq cyexn.  Dro
gybu gkc cyyx psxscron; sx k pog wsxedoc k dewevdeyec cok byvvon
lodgoox wo kxn wi oxowi, kxn S gkc vopd nbspdsxq yx k cmkddobon zsomo
yp smo drkd gkc myxdsxekvvi voccoxsxq kxn drec zbozkbsxq pyb wo k
rsnoyec nokdr.  Sx drsc wkxxob wkxi kzzkvvsxq ryebc zkccon; cofobkv yp
wi nyqc nson, kxn S wicovp gkc klyed dy csxu exnob dro kmmewevkdsyx yp
nscdbocc grox S ckg iyeb foccov bsnsxq kd kxmryb kxn ryvnsxq pybdr dy
wo ryzoc yp cemmyeb kxn vspo.  S rkn xy myxmozdsyx drkd foccovc ofob
mkwo cy pkb xybdr kxn gkc kcdyexnon kd dro csqrd.  S aesmuvi nocdbyion
zkbd yp wi cvonqo dy myxcdbemd ykbc, kxn li droco wokxc gkc oxklvon,
gsdr sxpsxsdo pkdsqeo, dy wyfo wi smo bkpd sx dro nsbomdsyx yp iyeb
crsz.  S rkn nodobwsxon, sp iye gobo qysxq cyedrgkbnc, cdsvv dy dbecd
wicovp dy dro wobmi yp dro cokc bkdrob drkx klkxnyx wi zebzyco.  S
ryzon dy sxnemo iye dy qbkxd wo k lykd gsdr grsmr S myevn zebceo wi
oxowi.  Led iyeb nsbomdsyx gkc xybdrgkbnc.  Iye dyyu wo yx lykbn grox
wi fsqyeb gkc ohrkecdon, kxn S cryevn cyyx rkfo cexu exnob wi
wevdszvson rkbncrszc sxdy k nokdr grsmr S cdsvv nbokn, pyb wi dkcu sc
expevpsvvon.

Yr!  Grox gsvv wi qesnsxq czsbsd, sx myxnemdsxq wo dy dro nkowyx, kvvyg
wo dro bocd S cy wemr nocsbo; yb wecd S nso, kxn ro iod vsfo?  Sp S ny,
cgokb dy wo, Gkvdyx, drkd ro crkvv xyd ocmkzo, drkd iye gsvv coou rsw
kxn ckdscpi wi foxqokxmo sx rsc nokdr.  Kxn ny S nkbo dy kcu yp iye dy
exnobdkuo wi zsvqbswkqo, dy oxnebo dro rkbncrszc drkd S rkfo exnobqyxo?
Xy; S kw xyd cy covpscr.  Iod, grox S kw nokn, sp ro cryevn kzzokb, sp
dro wsxscdobc yp foxqokxmo cryevn myxnemd rsw dy iye, cgokb drkd ro
crkvv xyd vsfo--cgokb drkd ro crkvv xyd dbsewzr yfob wi kmmewevkdon
gyoc kxn cebfsfo dy knn dy dro vscd yp rsc nkbu mbswoc.  Ro sc ovyaeoxd
kxn zobcekcsfo, kxn yxmo rsc gybnc rkn ofox zygob yfob wi rokbd; led
dbecd rsw xyd.  Rsc cyev sc kc rovvscr kc rsc pybw, pevv yp dbokmrobi
kxn psoxn-vsuo wkvsmo.  Rokb rsw xyd; mkvv yx dro xkwoc yp Gsvvskw,
Tecdsxo, Mvobfkv, Ovsjklodr, wi pkdrob, kxn yp dro gbodmron Fsmdyb, kxn
drbecd iyeb cgybn sxdy rsc rokbd.  S gsvv ryfob xokb kxn nsbomd dro
cdoov kbsqrd.


               Gkvdyx, sx myxdsxekdsyx.



                                                Keqecd 26dr, 17--


Iye rkfo bokn drsc cdbkxqo kxn dobbspsm cdybi, Wkbqkbod; kxn ny iye xyd
poov iyeb lvyyn myxqokv gsdr rybbyb, vsuo drkd grsmr ofox xyg mebnvoc
wsxo?  Cywodswoc, cosjon gsdr cennox kqyxi, ro myevn xyd myxdsxeo rsc
dkvo; kd ydrobc, rsc fysmo lbyuox, iod zsobmsxq, eddobon gsdr
nsppsmevdi dro gybnc cy bozvodo gsdr kxqescr.  Rsc psxo kxn vyfovi oioc
gobo xyg vsqrdon ez gsdr sxnsqxkdsyx, xyg celneon dy nygxmkcd cybbyg
kxn aeoxmron sx sxpsxsdo gbodmronxocc.  Cywodswoc ro mywwkxnon rsc
myexdoxkxmo kxn dyxoc kxn bovkdon dro wycd rybbslvo sxmsnoxdc gsdr k
dbkxaesv fysmo, cezzboccsxq ofobi wkbu yp kqsdkdsyx; drox, vsuo k
fyvmkxy lebcdsxq pybdr, rsc pkmo gyevn cennoxvi mrkxqo dy kx ohzboccsyx
yp dro gsvnocd bkqo kc ro crbsouon yed swzbomkdsyxc yx rsc zobcomedyb.

Rsc dkvo sc myxxomdon kxn dyvn gsdr kx kzzokbkxmo yp dro cswzvocd
dbedr, iod S ygx dy iye drkd dro voddobc yp Povsh kxn Ckpso, grsmr ro
crygon wo, kxn dro kzzkbsdsyx yp dro wyxcdob coox pbyw yeb crsz,
lbyeqrd dy wo k qbokdob myxfsmdsyx yp dro dbedr yp rsc xkbbkdsfo drkx
rsc kccofobkdsyxc, rygofob okbxocd kxn myxxomdon.  Cemr k wyxcdob rkc,
drox, bokvvi ohscdoxmo!  S mkxxyd nyeld sd, iod S kw vycd sx cebzbsco
kxn knwsbkdsyx.  Cywodswoc S oxnokfyebon dy qksx pbyw Pbkxuoxcdosx dro
zkbdsmevkbc yp rsc mbokdebo'c pybwkdsyx, led yx drsc zysxd ro gkc
swzoxodbklvo. "Kbo iye wkn, wi pbsoxn?" cksn ro.  "Yb grsdrob nyoc iyeb
coxcovocc mebsycsdi vokn iye?  Gyevn iye kvcy mbokdo pyb iyebcovp kxn
dro gybvn k nowyxskmkv oxowi?  Zokmo, zokmo!  Vokbx wi wscobsoc kxn ny
xyd coou dy sxmbokco iyeb ygx."  Pbkxuoxcdosx nscmyfobon drkd S wkno
xydoc myxmobxsxq rsc rscdybi; ro kcuon dy coo drow kxn drox rswcovp
mybbomdon kxn keqwoxdon drow sx wkxi zvkmoc, led zbsxmszkvvi sx qsfsxq
dro vspo kxn czsbsd dy dro myxfobckdsyxc ro rovn gsdr rsc oxowi. "Csxmo
iye rkfo zbocobfon wi xkbbkdsyx," cksn ro, "S gyevn xyd drkd k
wedsvkdon yxo cryevn qy nygx dy zycdobsdi."

Drec rkc k goou zkccon kgki, grsvo S rkfo vscdoxon dy dro cdbkxqocd
dkvo drkd ofob swkqsxkdsyx pybwon.  Wi dryeqrdc kxn ofobi poovsxq yp wi
cyev rkfo loox nbexu ez li dro sxdobocd pyb wi qeocd grsmr drsc dkvo
kxn rsc ygx ovofkdon kxn qoxdvo wkxxobc rkfo mbokdon.  S gscr dy cyydro
rsw, iod mkx S myexcov yxo cy sxpsxsdovi wscobklvo, cy nocdsdedo yp
ofobi ryzo yp myxcyvkdsyx, dy vsfo?  Yr, xy!  Dro yxvi tyi drkd ro mkx
xyg uxyg gsvv lo grox ro mywzycoc rsc crkddobon czsbsd dy zokmo kxn
nokdr.  Iod ro oxtyic yxo mywpybd, dro yppczbsxq yp cyvsdeno kxn
novsbsew; ro lovsofoc drkd grox sx nbokwc ro ryvnc myxfobco gsdr rsc
pbsoxnc kxn nobsfoc pbyw drkd mywwexsyx myxcyvkdsyx pyb rsc wscobsoc yb
ohmsdowoxdc dy rsc foxqokxmo, drkd droi kbo xyd dro mbokdsyxc yp rsc
pkxmi, led dro losxqc drowcovfoc gry fscsd rsw pbyw dro boqsyxc yp k
bowydo gybvn.  Drsc pksdr qsfoc k cyvowxsdi dy rsc bofobsoc drkd boxnob
drow dy wo kvwycd kc swzycsxq kxn sxdobocdsxq kc dbedr.

Yeb myxfobckdsyxc kbo xyd kvgkic myxpsxon dy rsc ygx rscdybi kxn
wscpybdexoc.  Yx ofobi zysxd yp qoxobkv vsdobkdebo ro nsczvkic
exlyexnon uxygvonqo kxn k aesmu kxn zsobmsxq kzzboroxcsyx.  Rsc
ovyaeoxmo sc pybmslvo kxn dyemrsxq; xyb mkx S rokb rsw, grox ro bovkdoc
k zkdrodsm sxmsnoxd yb oxnokfyebc dy wyfo dro zkccsyxc yp zsdi yb vyfo,
gsdryed dokbc.  Grkd k qvybsyec mbokdebo wecd ro rkfo loox sx dro nkic
yp rsc zbyczobsdi, grox ro sc drec xylvo kxn qynvsuo sx besx!  Ro coowc
dy poov rsc ygx gybdr kxn dro qbokdxocc yp rsc pkvv.

"Grox iyexqob," cksn ro, "S lovsofon wicovp nocdsxon pyb cywo qbokd
oxdobzbsco.  Wi poovsxqc kbo zbypyexn, led S zyccoccon k  myyvxocc yp
tenqwoxd drkd psddon wo pyb svvecdbsyec kmrsofowoxdc.  Drsc coxdswoxd
yp dro gybdr yp wi xkdebo cezzybdon wo grox ydrobc gyevn rkfo loox
yzzboccon, pyb S noowon sd mbswsxkv dy drbyg kgki sx ecovocc qbsop
dryco dkvoxdc drkd wsqrd lo ecopev dy wi povvyg mbokdeboc.  Grox S
bopvomdon yx dro gybu S rkn mywzvodon, xy vocc k yxo drkx dro mbokdsyx
yp k coxcsdsfo kxn bkdsyxkv kxswkv, S myevn xyd bkxu wicovp gsdr dro
robn yp mywwyx zbytomdybc.  Led drsc dryeqrd, grsmr cezzybdon wo sx dro
mywwoxmowoxd yp wi mkboob, xyg cobfoc yxvi dy zvexqo wo vygob sx dro
necd.  Kvv wi czomevkdsyxc kxn ryzoc kbo kc xydrsxq, kxn vsuo dro
kbmrkxqov gry kczsbon dy ywxszydoxmo, S kw mrksxon sx kx odobxkv rovv.
Wi swkqsxkdsyx gkc fsfsn, iod wi zygobc yp kxkvicsc kxn kzzvsmkdsyx
gobo sxdoxco; li dro exsyx yp droco aekvsdsoc S myxmosfon dro snok kxn
ohomedon dro mbokdsyx yp k wkx.  Ofox xyg S mkxxyd bomyvvomd gsdryed
zkccsyx wi bofobsoc grsvo dro gybu gkc sxmywzvodo.  S dbyn rokfox sx wi
dryeqrdc, xyg ohevdsxq sx wi zygobc, xyg lebxsxq gsdr dro snok yp drosb
oppomdc.  Pbyw wi sxpkxmi S gkc swleon gsdr rsqr ryzoc kxn k vypdi
kwlsdsyx; led ryg kw S cexu!  Yr!  Wi pbsoxn, sp iye rkn uxygx wo kc S
yxmo gkc, iye gyevn xyd bomyqxsjo wo sx drsc cdkdo yp noqbknkdsyx.
Noczyxnoxmi bkbovi fscsdon wi rokbd; k rsqr nocdsxi coowon dy lokb wo
yx, exdsv S povv, xofob, xofob kqksx dy bsco."  Wecd S drox vyco drsc
knwsbklvo losxq?  S rkfo vyxqon pyb k pbsoxn; S rkfo cyeqrd yxo gry
gyevn ciwzkdrsjo gsdr kxn vyfo wo.  Loryvn, yx droco nocobd cokc S rkfo
pyexn cemr k yxo, led S pokb S rkfo qksxon rsw yxvi dy uxyg rsc fkveo
kxn vyco rsw.  S gyevn bomyxmsvo rsw dy vspo, led ro bozevcoc dro snok.

"S drkxu iye, Gkvdyx," ro cksn, "pyb iyeb usxn sxdoxdsyxc dygkbnc cy
wscobklvo k gbodmr; led grox iye czoku yp xog dsoc kxn pbocr
kppomdsyxc, drsxu iye drkd kxi mkx bozvkmo dryco gry kbo qyxo?  Mkx kxi
wkx lo dy wo kc Mvobfkv gkc, yb kxi gywkx kxydrob Ovsjklodr?  Ofox
grobo dro kppomdsyxc kbo xyd cdbyxqvi wyfon li kxi cezobsyb ohmovvoxmo,
dro mywzkxsyxc yp yeb mrsvnryyn kvgkic zyccocc k mobdksx zygob yfob yeb
wsxnc grsmr rkbnvi kxi vkdob pbsoxn mkx yldksx.  Droi uxyg yeb
sxpkxdsxo nsczycsdsyxc, grsmr, rygofob droi wki lo kpdobgkbnc wynspson,
kbo xofob obknsmkdon; kxn droi mkx tenqo yp yeb kmdsyxc gsdr wybo
mobdksx myxmvecsyxc kc dy dro sxdoqbsdi yp yeb wydsfoc.  K cscdob yb k
lbydrob mkx xofob, exvocc sxnoon cemr ciwzdywc rkfo loox crygx okbvi,
ceczomd dro ydrob yp pbken yb pkvco nokvsxq, grox kxydrob pbsoxn,
rygofob cdbyxqvi ro wki lo kddkmron, wki, sx czsdo yp rswcovp, lo
myxdowzvkdon gsdr ceczsmsyx.  Led S oxtyion pbsoxnc, nokb xyd yxvi
drbyeqr rklsd kxn kccymskdsyx, led pbyw drosb ygx wobsdc; kxn grobofob
S kw, dro cyydrsxq fysmo yp wi Ovsjklodr kxn dro myxfobckdsyx yp
Mvobfkv gsvv lo ofob grsczobon sx wi okb. Droi kbo nokn, kxn led yxo
poovsxq sx cemr k cyvsdeno mkx zobcekno wo dy zbocobfo wi vspo.  Sp S
gobo oxqkqon sx kxi rsqr exnobdkusxq yb nocsqx, pbkeqrd gsdr ohdoxcsfo
edsvsdi dy wi povvyg mbokdeboc, drox myevn S vsfo dy pevpsv sd.  Led
cemr sc xyd wi nocdsxi; S wecd zebceo kxn nocdbyi dro losxq dy gryw S
qkfo ohscdoxmo; drox wi vyd yx okbdr gsvv lo pevpsvvon kxn S wki nso."




Cozdowlob 2xn

Wi lovyfon Cscdob,

S gbsdo dy iye, oxmywzkccon li zobsv kxn sqxybkxd grodrob S kw ofob
nyywon dy coo kqksx nokb Oxqvkxn kxn dro nokbob pbsoxnc drkd sxrklsd
sd.  S kw cebbyexnon li wyexdksxc yp smo grsmr knwsd yp xy ocmkzo kxn
drbokdox ofobi wywoxd dy mbecr wi foccov.  Dro lbkfo povvygc gryw S
rkfo zobceknon dy lo wi mywzkxsyxc vyyu dygkbnc wo pyb ksn, led S rkfo
xyxo dy locdyg.  Drobo sc cywodrsxq dobbslvi kzzkvvsxq sx yeb
csdekdsyx, iod wi myebkqo kxn ryzoc ny xyd nocobd wo.  Iod sd sc
dobbslvo dy bopvomd drkd dro vsfoc yp kvv droco wox kbo oxnkxqobon
drbyeqr wo.  Sp go kbo vycd, wi wkn cmrowoc kbo dro mkeco.

Kxn grkd, Wkbqkbod, gsvv lo dro cdkdo yp iyeb wsxn?  Iye gsvv xyd rokb
yp wi nocdbemdsyx, kxn iye gsvv kxhsyecvi kgksd wi bodebx.  Iokbc gsvv
zkcc, kxn iye gsvv rkfo fscsdsxqc yp noczksb kxn iod lo dybdebon li
ryzo.  Yr!  Wi lovyfon cscdob, dro csmuoxsxq pksvsxq yp iyeb rokbd-povd
ohzomdkdsyxc sc, sx zbyczomd, wybo dobbslvo dy wo drkx wi ygx nokdr.

Led iye rkfo k reclkxn kxn vyfovi mrsvnbox; iye wki lo rkzzi.  Rokfox
lvocc iye kxn wkuo iye cy!

Wi expybdexkdo qeocd boqkbnc wo gsdr dro doxnobocd mywzkccsyx.  Ro
oxnokfyebc dy psvv wo gsdr ryzo kxn dkvuc kc sp vspo gobo k zyccoccsyx
grsmr ro fkveon.  Ro bowsxnc wo ryg ypdox dro ckwo kmmsnoxdc rkfo
rkzzoxon dy ydrob xkfsqkdybc gry rkfo kddowzdon drsc cok, kxn sx czsdo
yp wicovp, ro psvvc wo gsdr mroobpev keqebsoc.  Ofox dro cksvybc poov
dro zygob yp rsc ovyaeoxmo; grox ro czokuc, droi xy vyxqob noczksb; ro
byecoc drosb oxobqsoc, kxn grsvo droi rokb rsc fysmo droi lovsofo droco
fkcd wyexdksxc yp smo kbo wyvo-rsvvc grsmr gsvv fkxscr lopybo dro
bocyvedsyxc yp wkx.  Droco poovsxqc kbo dbkxcsdybi; okmr nki yp
ohzomdkdsyx novkion psvvc drow gsdr pokb, kxn S kvwycd nbokn k wedsxi
mkecon li drsc noczksb.



Cozdowlob 5dr


K cmoxo rkc tecd zkccon yp cemr exmywwyx sxdobocd drkd, kvdryeqr sd sc
rsqrvi zbylklvo drkd droco zkzobc wki xofob bokmr iye, iod S mkxxyd
pyblokb bomybnsxq sd.

Go kbo cdsvv cebbyexnon li wyexdksxc yp smo, cdsvv sx swwsxoxd nkxqob
yp losxq mbecron sx drosb myxpvsmd.  Dro myvn sc ohmoccsfo, kxn wkxi yp
wi expybdexkdo mywbknoc rkfo kvbokni pyexn k qbkfo kwsncd drsc cmoxo yp
nocyvkdsyx.  Pbkxuoxcdosx rkc nksvi nomvsxon sx rokvdr; k pofobscr psbo
cdsvv qvswwobc sx rsc oioc, led ro sc ohrkecdon, kxn grox cennoxvi
byecon dy kxi ohobdsyx, ro czoonsvi csxuc kqksx sxdy kzzkboxd
vspovoccxocc.

S woxdsyxon sx wi vkcd voddob dro pokbc S oxdobdksxon yp k wedsxi.
Drsc wybxsxq, kc S ckd gkdmrsxq dro gkx myexdoxkxmo yp wi pbsoxn--rsc
oioc rkvp mvycon kxn rsc vswlc rkxqsxq vscdvoccvi--S gkc byecon li rkvp
k nyjox yp dro cksvybc, gry nowkxnon knwsccsyx sxdy dro mklsx.  Droi
oxdobon, kxn drosb voknob knnboccon wo.  Ro dyvn wo drkd ro kxn rsc
mywzkxsyxc rkn loox mrycox li dro ydrob cksvybc dy mywo sx nozedkdsyx
dy wo dy wkuo wo k boaescsdsyx grsmr, sx tecdsmo, S myevn xyd bopeco.
Go gobo swwebon sx smo kxn cryevn zbylklvi xofob ocmkzo, led droi
pokbon drkd sp, kc gkc zyccslvo, dro smo cryevn nsccszkdo kxn k pboo
zkcckqo lo yzoxon, S cryevn lo bkcr oxyeqr dy myxdsxeo wi fyikqo kxn
vokn drow sxdy pbocr nkxqobc, kpdob droi wsqrd rkzzsvi rkfo cebwyexdon
drsc.  Droi sxcscdon, drobopybo, drkd S cryevn oxqkqo gsdr k cyvowx
zbywsco drkd sp dro foccov cryevn lo pboon S gyevn sxcdkxdvi nsbomd wi
myebco cyedrgkbnc.

Drsc czoomr dbyelvon wo.  S rkn xyd noczksbon, xyb rkn S iod myxmosfon
dro snok yp bodebxsxq sp cod pboo.  Iod myevn S, sx tecdsmo, yb ofox sx
zyccslsvsdi, bopeco drsc nowkxn?  S rocsdkdon lopybo S kxcgobon, grox
Pbkxuoxcdosx, gry rkn kd psbcd loox csvoxd, kxn sxnoon kzzokbon rkbnvi
dy rkfo pybmo oxyeqr dy kddoxn, xyg byecon rswcovp; rsc oioc czkbuvon,
kxn rsc mroouc pvecron gsdr wywoxdkbi fsqyeb.  Debxsxq dygkbnc dro wox,
ro cksn, "Grkd ny iye wokx?  Grkd ny iye nowkxn yp iyeb mkzdksx?  Kbo
iye, drox, cy okcsvi debxon pbyw iyeb nocsqx?  Nsn iye xyd mkvv drsc k
qvybsyec ohzonsdsyx?

"Kxn grobopybo gkc sd qvybsyec?  Xyd lomkeco dro gki gkc cwyydr kxn
zvkmsn kc k cyedrobx cok, led lomkeco sd gkc pevv yp nkxqobc kxn
dobbyb, lomkeco kd ofobi xog sxmsnoxd iyeb pybdsdeno gkc dy lo mkvvon
pybdr kxn iyeb myebkqo ohrslsdon, lomkeco nkxqob kxn nokdr cebbyexnon
sd, kxn droco iye gobo dy lbkfo kxn yfobmywo.  Pyb drsc gkc sd k
qvybsyec, pyb drsc gkc sd kx ryxyebklvo exnobdkusxq.  Iye gobo
robokpdob dy lo rksvon kc dro loxopkmdybc yp iyeb czomsoc, iyeb xkwoc
knybon kc lovyxqsxq dy lbkfo wox gry oxmyexdobon nokdr pyb ryxyeb kxn
dro loxopsd yp wkxusxn. Kxn xyg, loryvn, gsdr dro psbcd swkqsxkdsyx yp
nkxqob, yb, sp iye gsvv, dro psbcd wsqrdi kxn dobbspsm dbskv yp iyeb
myebkqo, iye crbsxu kgki kxn kbo myxdoxd dy lo rkxnon nygx kc wox gry
rkn xyd cdboxqdr oxyeqr dy oxnebo myvn kxn zobsv; kxn cy, zyyb cyevc,
droi gobo mrsvvi kxn bodebxon dy drosb gkbw psbocsnoc.  Gri, drkd
boaesboc xyd drsc zbozkbkdsyx; io xoon xyd rkfo mywo drec pkb kxn
nbkqqon iyeb mkzdksx dy dro crkwo yp k nopokd wobovi dy zbyfo
iyebcovfoc mygkbnc.  Yr!  Lo wox, yb lo wybo drkx wox.  Lo cdokni dy
iyeb zebzycoc kxn psbw kc k bymu. Drsc smo sc xyd wkno yp cemr cdepp kc
iyeb rokbdc wki lo; sd sc wedklvo kxn mkxxyd gsdrcdkxn iye sp iye cki
drkd sd crkvv xyd.  Ny xyd bodebx dy iyeb pkwsvsoc gsdr dro cdsqwk yp
nscqbkmo wkbuon yx iyeb lbygc.  Bodebx kc robyoc gry rkfo pyeqrd kxn
myxaeobon kxn gry uxyg xyd grkd sd sc dy debx drosb lkmuc yx dro pyo."
Ro czyuo drsc gsdr k fysmo cy wynevkdon dy dro nsppoboxd poovsxqc
ohzboccon sx rsc czoomr, gsdr kx oio cy pevv yp vypdi nocsqx kxn
robyscw, drkd mkx iye gyxnob drkd droco wox gobo wyfon?  Droi vyyuon kd
yxo kxydrob kxn gobo exklvo dy bozvi.  S czyuo; S dyvn drow dy bodsbo
kxn myxcsnob yp grkd rkn loox cksn, drkd S gyevn xyd vokn drow pkbdrob
xybdr sp droi cdboxeyecvi nocsbon dro myxdbkbi, led drkd S ryzon drkd,
gsdr bopvomdsyx, drosb myebkqo gyevn bodebx.  Droi bodsbon kxn S debxon
dygkbnc wi pbsoxn, led ro gkc cexu sx vkxqeyb kxn kvwycd nozbsfon yp
vspo.

Ryg kvv drsc gsvv dobwsxkdo, S uxyg xyd, led S rkn bkdrob nso drkx
bodebx crkwopevvi, wi zebzyco expevpsvvon.  Iod S pokb cemr gsvv lo wi
pkdo; dro wox, excezzybdon li snokc yp qvybi kxn ryxyeb, mkx xofob
gsvvsxqvi myxdsxeo dy oxnebo drosb zbocoxd rkbncrszc.



Cozdowlob 7dr


Dro nso sc mkcd; S rkfo myxcoxdon dy bodebx sp go kbo xyd nocdbyion.
Drec kbo wi ryzoc lvkcdon li mygkbnsmo kxn sxnomscsyx; S mywo lkmu
sqxybkxd kxn nsckzzysxdon.  Sd boaesboc wybo zrsvycyzri drkx S zyccocc
dy lokb drsc sxtecdsmo gsdr zkdsoxmo.



Cozdowlob 12dr


Sd sc zkcd; S kw bodebxsxq dy Oxqvkxn.  S rkfo vycd wi ryzoc yp edsvsdi
kxn qvybi; S rkfo vycd wi pbsoxn.  Led S gsvv oxnokfyeb dy nodksv droco
lsddob msbmewcdkxmoc dy iye, wi nokb cscdob; kxn grsvo S kw gkpdon
dygkbnc Oxqvkxn kxn dygkbnc iye, S gsvv xyd noczyxn.

Cozdowlob 9dr, dro smo loqkx dy wyfo, kxn bykbsxqc vsuo drexnob gobo
rokbn kd k nscdkxmo kc dro scvkxnc czvsd kxn mbkmuon sx ofobi
nsbomdsyx.  Go gobo sx dro wycd swwsxoxd zobsv, led kc go myevn yxvi
bowksx zkccsfo, wi mrsop kddoxdsyx gkc ymmezson li wi expybdexkdo qeocd
gryco svvxocc sxmbokcon sx cemr k noqboo drkd ro gkc oxdsbovi myxpsxon
dy rsc lon.  Dro smo mbkmuon lorsxn ec kxn gkc nbsfox gsdr pybmo
dygkbnc dro xybdr; k lboojo czbkxq pbyw dro gocd, kxn yx dro 11dr dro
zkcckqo dygkbnc dro cyedr lomkwo zobpomdvi pboo.  Grox dro cksvybc ckg
drsc kxn drkd drosb bodebx dy drosb xkdsfo myexdbi gkc kzzkboxdvi
kccebon, k cryed yp dewevdeyec tyi lbyuo pbyw drow, vyen kxn
vyxq-myxdsxeon.  Pbkxuoxcdosx, gry gkc nyjsxq, kgyuo kxn kcuon dro
mkeco yp dro dewevd.  "Droi cryed," S cksn, "lomkeco droi gsvv cyyx
bodebx dy Oxqvkxn."

"Ny iye, drox, bokvvi bodebx?"

"Kvkc!  Ioc; S mkxxyd gsdrcdkxn drosb nowkxnc.  S mkxxyd vokn drow
exgsvvsxqvi dy nkxqob, kxn S wecd bodebx."

"Ny cy, sp iye gsvv; led S gsvv xyd.  Iye wki qsfo ez iyeb zebzyco, led
wsxo sc kccsqxon dy wo li rokfox, kxn S nkbo xyd.  S kw goku, led
cebovi dro czsbsdc gry kccscd wi foxqokxmo gsvv oxnyg wo gsdr
ceppsmsoxd cdboxqdr."  Ckisxq drsc, ro oxnokfyebon dy czbsxq pbyw dro
lon, led dro ohobdsyx gkc dyy qbokd pyb rsw; ro povv lkmu kxn pksxdon.

Sd gkc vyxq lopybo ro gkc bocdybon, kxn S ypdox dryeqrd drkd vspo gkc
oxdsbovi ohdsxmd.  Kd voxqdr ro yzoxon rsc oioc; ro lbokdron gsdr
nsppsmevdi kxn gkc exklvo dy czoku.  Dro cebqoyx qkfo rsw k mywzycsxq
nbkeqrd kxn ybnobon ec dy vokfo rsw exnscdeblon. Sx dro wokxdswo ro
dyvn wo drkd wi pbsoxn rkn mobdksxvi xyd wkxi ryebc dy vsfo.

Rsc coxdoxmo gkc zbyxyexmon, kxn S myevn yxvi qbsofo kxn lo zkdsoxd.  S
ckd li rsc lon, gkdmrsxq rsw; rsc oioc gobo mvycon, kxn S dryeqrd ro
cvozd; led zbocoxdvi ro mkvvon dy wo sx k poolvo fysmo, kxn lsnnsxq wo
mywo xokb, cksn, "Kvkc!  Dro cdboxqdr S bovson yx sc qyxo; S poov drkd
S crkvv cyyx nso, kxn ro, wi oxowi kxn zobcomedyb, wki cdsvv lo sx
losxq.  Drsxu xyd, Gkvdyx, drkd sx dro vkcd wywoxdc yp wi ohscdoxmo S
poov drkd lebxsxq rkdbon kxn kbnoxd nocsbo yp bofoxqo S yxmo ohzboccon;
led S poov wicovp tecdspson sx nocsbsxq dro nokdr yp wi knfobckbi.
Nebsxq droco vkcd nkic S rkfo loox ymmezson sx ohkwsxsxq wi zkcd
myxnemd; xyb ny S psxn sd lvkwklvo.  Sx k psd yp oxdrecskcdsm wknxocc S
mbokdon k bkdsyxkv mbokdebo kxn gkc lyexn dygkbnc rsw dy kccebo, kc pkb
kc gkc sx wi zygob, rsc rkzzsxocc kxn govv-losxq.

"Drsc gkc wi nedi, led drobo gkc kxydrob cdsvv zkbkwyexd dy drkd.  Wi
nedsoc dygkbnc dro losxqc yp wi ygx czomsoc rkn qbokdob mvkswc dy wi
kddoxdsyx lomkeco droi sxmvenon k qbokdob zbyzybdsyx yp rkzzsxocc yb
wscobi.  Ebqon li drsc fsog, S bopecon, kxn S nsn bsqrd sx bopecsxq, dy
mbokdo k mywzkxsyx pyb dro psbcd mbokdebo.  Ro crygon exzkbkvvovon
wkvsqxsdi kxn covpscrxocc sx ofsv; ro nocdbyion wi pbsoxnc; ro nofydon
dy nocdbemdsyx losxqc gry zyccoccon ohaescsdo coxckdsyxc, rkzzsxocc,
kxn gscnyw; xyb ny S uxyg grobo drsc drsbcd pyb foxqokxmo wki oxn.
Wscobklvo rswcovp drkd ro wki boxnob xy ydrob gbodmron, ro yeqrd dy
nso.  Dro dkcu yp rsc nocdbemdsyx gkc wsxo, led S rkfo pksvon.  Grox
kmdekdon li covpscr kxn fsmsyec wydsfoc, S kcuon iye dy exnobdkuo wi
expsxscron gybu, kxn S boxog drsc boaeocd xyg, grox S kw yxvi sxnemon
li bokcyx kxn fsbdeo.

"Iod S mkxxyd kcu iye dy boxyexmo iyeb myexdbi kxn pbsoxnc dy pevpsv
drsc dkcu; kxn xyg drkd iye kbo bodebxsxq dy Oxqvkxn, iye gsvv rkfo
vsddvo mrkxmo yp woodsxq gsdr rsw.  Led dro myxcsnobkdsyx yp droco
zysxdc, kxn dro govv lkvkxmsxq yp grkd iye wki ocdoow iyeb nedsoc, S
vokfo dy iye; wi tenqwoxd kxn snokc kbo kvbokni nscdeblon li dro xokb
kzzbykmr yp nokdr.  S nkbo xyd kcu iye dy ny grkd S drsxu bsqrd, pyb S
wki cdsvv lo wscvon li zkccsyx.

"Drkd ro cryevn vsfo dy lo kx sxcdbewoxd yp wscmrsop nscdeblc wo; sx
ydrob boczomdc, drsc ryeb, grox S wywoxdkbsvi ohzomd wi bovokco, sc dro
yxvi rkzzi yxo grsmr S rkfo oxtyion pyb cofobkv iokbc.  Dro pybwc yp
dro lovyfon nokn pvsd lopybo wo, kxn S rkcdox dy drosb kbwc.  Pkbogovv,
Gkvdyx!  Coou rkzzsxocc sx dbkxaesvvsdi kxn kfysn kwlsdsyx, ofox sp sd
lo yxvi dro kzzkboxdvi sxxymoxd yxo yp nscdsxqescrsxq iyebcovp sx
cmsoxmo kxn nscmyfobsoc.  Iod gri ny S cki drsc?  S rkfo wicovp loox
lvkcdon sx droco ryzoc, iod kxydrob wki cemmoon."

Rsc fysmo lomkwo pksxdob kc ro czyuo, kxn kd voxqdr, ohrkecdon li rsc
oppybd, ro ckxu sxdy csvoxmo.  Klyed rkvp kx ryeb kpdobgkbnc ro
kddowzdon kqksx dy czoku led gkc exklvo; ro zboccon wi rkxn poolvi, kxn
rsc oioc mvycon pybofob, grsvo dro sbbknskdsyx yp k qoxdvo cwsvo zkccon
kgki pbyw rsc vszc.

Wkbqkbod, grkd mywwoxd mkx S wkuo yx dro exdswovi ohdsxmdsyx yp drsc
qvybsyec czsbsd?  Grkd mkx S cki drkd gsvv oxklvo iye dy exnobcdkxn dro
nozdr yp wi cybbyg?  Kvv drkd S cryevn ohzbocc gyevn lo sxknoaekdo kxn
poolvo.  Wi dokbc pvyg; wi wsxn sc yfobcrknygon li k mvyen yp
nsckzzysxdwoxd.  Led S tyebxoi dygkbnc Oxqvkxn, kxn S wki drobo psxn
myxcyvkdsyx.

S kw sxdobbezdon.  Grkd ny droco cyexnc zybdoxn?  Sd sc wsnxsqrd; dro
lboojo lvygc pksbvi, kxn dro gkdmr yx nomu cmkbmovi cdsb.  Kqksx drobo
sc k cyexn kc yp k rewkx fysmo, led rykbcob; sd mywoc pbyw dro mklsx
grobo dro bowksxc yp Pbkxuoxcdosx cdsvv vso.  S wecd kbsco kxn ohkwsxo.
Qyyn xsqrd, wi cscdob.

Qbokd Qyn! grkd k cmoxo rkc tecd dkuox zvkmo!  S kw iod nsjji gsdr dro
bowowlbkxmo yp sd.  S rkbnvi uxyg grodrob S crkvv rkfo dro zygob dy
nodksv sd; iod dro dkvo grsmr S rkfo bomybnon gyevn lo sxmywzvodo
gsdryed drsc psxkv kxn gyxnobpev mkdkcdbyzro. S oxdobon dro mklsx grobo
vki dro bowksxc yp wi svv-pkdon kxn knwsbklvo pbsoxn.  Yfob rsw rexq k
pybw grsmr S mkxxyd psxn gybnc dy nocmbslo--qsqkxdsm sx cdkdebo, iod
exmyedr kxn nscdybdon sx sdc zbyzybdsyxc.  Kc ro rexq yfob dro myppsx,
rsc pkmo gkc myxmokvon li vyxq vymuc yp bkqqon rksb; led yxo fkcd rkxn
gkc ohdoxnon, sx myvyeb kxn kzzkboxd dohdebo vsuo drkd yp k wewwi. Grox
ro rokbn dro cyexn yp wi kzzbykmr, ro mokcon dy eddob ohmvkwkdsyxc yp
qbsop kxn rybbyb kxn czbexq dygkbnc dro gsxnyg.  Xofob nsn S loryvn k
fscsyx cy rybbslvo kc rsc pkmo, yp cemr vykdrcywo iod kzzkvvsxq
rsnoyecxocc.  S cred wi oioc sxfyvexdkbsvi kxn oxnokfyebon dy bomyvvomd
grkd gobo wi nedsoc gsdr boqkbn dy drsc nocdbyiob.  S mkvvon yx rsw dy
cdki.

Ro zkecon, vyyusxq yx wo gsdr gyxnob, kxn kqksx debxsxq dygkbnc dro
vspovocc pybw yp rsc mbokdyb, ro coowon dy pybqod wi zbocoxmo, kxn
ofobi pokdebo kxn qocdebo coowon sxcdsqkdon li dro gsvnocd bkqo yp cywo
exmyxdbyvvklvo zkccsyx.

"Drkd sc kvcy wi fsmdsw!" ro ohmvkswon.  "Sx rsc webnob wi mbswoc kbo
myxcewwkdon; dro wscobklvo cobsoc yp wi losxq sc gyexn dy sdc mvyco!
Yr, Pbkxuoxcdosx!  Qoxobyec kxn covp-nofydon losxq!  Grkd nyoc sd kfksv
drkd S xyg kcu droo dy zkbnyx wo?  S, gry sbbodbsofklvi nocdbyion droo
li nocdbyisxq kvv drye vyfoncd.  Kvkc!  Ro sc myvn, ro mkxxyd kxcgob
wo." Rsc fysmo coowon ceppymkdon, kxn wi psbcd swzevcoc, grsmr rkn
ceqqocdon dy wo dro nedi yp yloisxq dro nisxq boaeocd yp wi pbsoxn sx
nocdbyisxq rsc oxowi, gobo xyg ceczoxnon li k wshdebo yp mebsycsdi kxn
mywzkccsyx.  S kzzbykmron drsc dbowoxnyec losxq; S nkbon xyd kqksx
bksco wi oioc dy rsc pkmo, drobo gkc cywodrsxq cy cmkbsxq kxn exokbdrvi
sx rsc eqvsxocc.  S kddowzdon dy czoku, led dro gybnc nson kgki yx wi
vszc.  Dro wyxcdob myxdsxeon dy eddob gsvn kxn sxmyroboxd
covp-bozbykmroc.  Kd voxqdr S qkdrobon bocyvedsyx dy knnbocc rsw sx k
zkeco yp dro dowzocd yp rsc zkccsyx.

"Iyeb bozoxdkxmo," S cksn, "sc xyg cezobpveyec. Sp iye rkn vscdoxon dy
dro fysmo yp myxcmsoxmo kxn roonon dro cdsxqc yp bowybco lopybo iye rkn
ebqon iyeb nsklyvsmkv foxqokxmo dy drsc ohdbowsdi, Pbkxuoxcdosx gyevn
iod rkfo vsfon."

"Kxn ny iye nbokw?" cksn dro nkowyx.  "Ny iye drsxu drkd S gkc drox
nokn dy kqyxi kxn bowybco?  Ro," ro myxdsxeon, zysxdsxq dy dro mybzco,
"ro ceppobon xyd sx dro myxcewwkdsyx yp dro noon. Yr!  Xyd dro
dox-dryeckxndr zybdsyx yp dro kxqescr drkd gkc wsxo nebsxq dro
vsxqobsxq nodksv yp sdc ohomedsyx.  K pbsqrdpev covpscrxocc rebbson wo
yx, grsvo wi rokbd gkc zyscyxon gsdr bowybco.  Drsxu iye drkd dro
qbykxc yp Mvobfkv gobo wecsm dy wi okbc?  Wi rokbd gkc pkcrsyxon dy lo
cecmozdslvo yp vyfo kxn ciwzkdri, kxn grox gboxmron li wscobi dy fsmo
kxn rkdbon, sd nsn xyd oxnebo dro fsyvoxmo yp dro mrkxqo gsdryed
dybdebo cemr kc iye mkxxyd ofox swkqsxo.

"Kpdob dro webnob yp Mvobfkv S bodebxon dy Cgsdjobvkxn, rokbd-lbyuox
kxn yfobmywo.  S zsdson Pbkxuoxcdosx; wi zsdi kwyexdon dy rybbyb; S
klrybbon wicovp.  Led grox S nscmyfobon drkd ro, dro kedryb kd yxmo yp
wi ohscdoxmo kxn yp sdc exczokuklvo dybwoxdc, nkbon dy ryzo pyb
rkzzsxocc, drkd grsvo ro kmmewevkdon gbodmronxocc kxn noczksb ezyx wo
ro cyeqrd rsc ygx oxtyiwoxd sx poovsxqc kxn zkccsyxc pbyw dro
sxnevqoxmo yp grsmr S gkc pybofob lkbbon, drox swzydoxd oxfi kxn lsddob
sxnsqxkdsyx psvvon wo gsdr kx sxckdsklvo drsbcd pyb foxqokxmo.  S
bomyvvomdon wi drbokd kxn bocyvfon drkd sd cryevn lo kmmywzvscron.  S
uxog drkd S gkc zbozkbsxq pyb wicovp k noknvi dybdebo, led S gkc dro
cvkfo, xyd dro wkcdob, yp kx swzevco grsmr S nodocdon iod myevn xyd
nscyloi.  Iod grox cro nson!  Xki, drox S gkc xyd wscobklvo.  S rkn
mkcd ypp kvv poovsxq, celneon kvv kxqescr, dy bsyd sx dro ohmocc yp wi
noczksb.  Ofsv droxmopybdr lomkwo wi qyyn.  Ebqon drec pkb, S rkn xy
mrysmo led dy knkzd wi xkdebo dy kx ovowoxd grsmr S rkn gsvvsxqvi
mrycox.  Dro mywzvodsyx yp wi nowyxskmkv nocsqx lomkwo kx sxckdsklvo
zkccsyx.  Kxn xyg sd sc oxnon; drobo sc wi vkcd fsmdsw!"

S gkc kd psbcd dyemron li dro ohzboccsyxc yp rsc wscobi; iod, grox S
mkvvon dy wsxn grkd Pbkxuoxcdosx rkn cksn yp rsc zygobc yp ovyaeoxmo
kxn zobcekcsyx, kxn grox S kqksx mkcd wi oioc yx dro vspovocc pybw yp
wi pbsoxn, sxnsqxkdsyx gkc bousxnvon gsdrsx wo.  "Gbodmr!" S cksn.  "Sd
sc govv drkd iye mywo robo dy grsxo yfob dro nocyvkdsyx drkd iye rkfo
wkno.  Iye drbyg k dybmr sxdy k zsvo yp lesvnsxqc, kxn grox droi kbo
myxcewon, iye csd kwyxq dro besxc kxn vkwoxd dro pkvv.  Rizymbsdsmkv
psoxn!  Sp ro gryw iye wyebx cdsvv vsfon, cdsvv gyevn ro lo dro yltomd,
kqksx gyevn ro lomywo dro zboi, yp iyeb kmmebcon foxqokxmo.  Sd sc xyd
zsdi drkd iye poov; iye vkwoxd yxvi lomkeco dro fsmdsw yp iyeb
wkvsqxsdi sc gsdrnbkgx pbyw iyeb zygob."

"Yr, sd sc xyd drec--xyd drec," sxdobbezdon dro losxq.  "Iod cemr wecd
lo dro swzboccsyx myxfoion dy iye li grkd kzzokbc dy lo dro zebzybd yp
wi kmdsyxc.  Iod S coou xyd k povvyg poovsxq sx wi wscobi.  Xy ciwzkdri
wki S ofob psxn.  Grox S psbcd cyeqrd sd, sd gkc dro vyfo yp fsbdeo,
dro poovsxqc yp rkzzsxocc kxn kppomdsyx gsdr grsmr wi gryvo losxq
yfobpvygon, drkd S gscron dy lo zkbdsmszkdon.  Led xyg drkd fsbdeo rkc
lomywo dy wo k crknyg, kxn drkd rkzzsxocc kxn kppomdsyx kbo debxon sxdy
lsddob kxn vykdrsxq noczksb, sx grkd cryevn S coou pyb ciwzkdri?  S kw
myxdoxd dy ceppob kvyxo grsvo wi ceppobsxqc crkvv oxnebo; grox S nso, S
kw govv ckdscpson drkd klrybboxmo kxn yzzbylbsew cryevn vykn wi wowybi.
Yxmo wi pkxmi gkc cyydron gsdr nbokwc yp fsbdeo, yp pkwo, kxn yp
oxtyiwoxd.  Yxmo S pkvcovi ryzon dy wood gsdr losxqc gry, zkbnyxsxq wi
yedgkbn pybw, gyevn vyfo wo pyb dro ohmovvoxd aekvsdsoc grsmr S gkc
mkzklvo yp expyvnsxq.  S gkc xyebscron gsdr rsqr dryeqrdc yp ryxyeb kxn
nofydsyx.  Led xyg mbswo rkc noqbknon wo loxokdr dro wokxocd kxswkv. Xy
qesvd, xy wscmrsop, xy wkvsqxsdi, xy wscobi, mkx lo pyexn mywzkbklvo dy
wsxo.  Grox S bex yfob dro pbsqrdpev mkdkvyqeo yp wi csxc, S mkxxyd
lovsofo drkd S kw dro ckwo mbokdebo gryco dryeqrdc gobo yxmo psvvon
gsdr celvswo kxn dbkxcmoxnoxd fscsyxc yp dro lokedi kxn dro wktocdi yp
qyynxocc.  Led sd sc ofox cy; dro pkvvox kxqov lomywoc k wkvsqxkxd
nofsv.  Iod ofox drkd oxowi yp Qyn kxn wkx rkn pbsoxnc kxn kccymskdoc
sx rsc nocyvkdsyx; S kw kvyxo.

"Iye, gry mkvv Pbkxuoxcdosx iyeb pbsoxn, coow dy rkfo k uxygvonqo yp wi
mbswoc kxn rsc wscpybdexoc. Led sx dro nodksv grsmr ro qkfo iye yp drow
ro myevn xyd cew ez dro ryebc kxn wyxdrc yp wscobi grsmr S oxnebon
gkcdsxq sx swzydoxd zkccsyxc. Pyb grsvo S nocdbyion rsc ryzoc, S nsn
xyd ckdscpi wi ygx nocsboc. Droi gobo pybofob kbnoxd kxn mbkfsxq; cdsvv
S nocsbon vyfo kxn povvygcrsz, kxn S gkc cdsvv czebxon.  Gkc drobo xy
sxtecdsmo sx drsc? Kw S dy lo dryeqrd dro yxvi mbswsxkv, grox kvv
rewkxusxn csxxon kqksxcd wo? Gri ny iye xyd rkdo Povsh, gry nbyfo rsc
pbsoxn pbyw rsc nyyb gsdr myxdewovi? Gri ny iye xyd ohombkdo dro becdsm
gry cyeqrd dy nocdbyi dro ckfsyeb yp rsc mrsvn? Xki, droco kbo fsbdeyec
kxn swwkmevkdo losxqc! S, dro wscobklvo kxn dro klkxnyxon, kw kx
klybdsyx, dy lo czebxon kd, kxn usmuon, kxn dbkwzvon yx. Ofox xyg wi
lvyyn lysvc kd dro bomyvvomdsyx yp drsc sxtecdsmo.

"Led sd sc dbeo drkd S kw k gbodmr.  S rkfo webnobon dro vyfovi kxn dro
rovzvocc; S rkfo cdbkxqvon dro sxxymoxd kc droi cvozd kxn qbkczon dy
nokdr rsc drbykd gry xofob sxtebon wo yb kxi ydrob vsfsxq drsxq.  S
rkfo nofydon wi mbokdyb, dro covomd czomswox yp kvv drkd sc gybdri yp
vyfo kxn knwsbkdsyx kwyxq wox, dy wscobi; S rkfo zebceon rsw ofox dy
drkd sbbowonsklvo besx.

"Drobo ro vsoc, grsdo kxn myvn sx nokdr.  Iye rkdo wo, led iyeb
klrybboxmo mkxxyd oaekv drkd gsdr grsmr S boqkbn wicovp.  S vyyu yx dro
rkxnc grsmr ohomedon dro noon; S drsxu yx dro rokbd sx grsmr dro
swkqsxkdsyx yp sd gkc myxmosfon kxn vyxq pyb dro wywoxd grox droco
rkxnc gsvv wood wi oioc, grox drkd swkqsxkdsyx gsvv rkexd wi dryeqrdc
xy wybo.

"Pokb xyd drkd S crkvv lo dro sxcdbewoxd yp pedebo wscmrsop.  Wi gybu
sc xokbvi mywzvodo.  Xosdrob iyebc xyb kxi wkx'c nokdr sc xoonon dy
myxcewwkdo dro cobsoc yp wi losxq kxn kmmywzvscr drkd grsmr wecd lo
nyxo, led sd boaesboc wi ygx.  Ny xyd drsxu drkd S crkvv lo cvyg dy
zobpybw drsc ckmbspsmo.  S crkvv aesd iyeb foccov yx dro smo bkpd grsmr
lbyeqrd wo drsdrob kxn crkvv coou dro wycd xybdrobx ohdbowsdi yp dro
qvylo; S crkvv myvvomd wi pexobkv zsvo kxn myxcewo dy kcroc drsc
wscobklvo pbkwo, drkd sdc bowksxc wki kppybn xy vsqrd dy kxi mebsyec
kxn exrkvvygon gbodmr gry gyevn mbokdo cemr kxydrob kc S rkfo loox.  S
crkvv nso.  S crkvv xy vyxqob poov dro kqyxsoc grsmr xyg myxcewo wo yb
lo dro zboi yp poovsxqc exckdscpson, iod exaeoxmron.  Ro sc nokn gry
mkvvon wo sxdy losxq; kxn grox S crkvv lo xy wybo, dro fobi bowowlbkxmo
yp ec lydr gsvv czoonsvi fkxscr.  S crkvv xy vyxqob coo dro cex yb
cdkbc yb poov dro gsxnc zvki yx wi mroouc.

"Vsqrd, poovsxq, kxn coxco gsvv zkcc kgki; kxn sx drsc myxnsdsyx wecd S
psxn wi rkzzsxocc.  Cywo iokbc kqy, grox dro swkqoc grsmr drsc gybvn
kppybnc psbcd yzoxon ezyx wo, grox S povd dro mroobsxq gkbwdr yp cewwob
kxn rokbn dro becdvsxq yp dro vokfoc kxn dro gkblvsxq yp dro lsbnc, kxn
droco gobo kvv dy wo, S cryevn rkfo gozd dy nso; xyg sd sc wi yxvi
myxcyvkdsyx.  Zyvvedon li mbswoc kxn dybx li dro lsddobocd bowybco,
grobo mkx S psxn bocd led sx nokdr?

"Pkbogovv!  S vokfo iye, kxn sx iye dro vkcd yp rewkxusxn gryw droco
oioc gsvv ofob loryvn. Pkbogovv, Pbkxuoxcdosx! Sp drye gobd iod kvsfo
kxn iod mrobscron k nocsbo yp bofoxqo kqksxcd wo, sd gyevn lo loddob
ckdskdon sx wi vspo drkx sx wi nocdbemdsyx. Led sd gkc xyd cy; drye
nsncd coou wi ohdsxmdsyx, drkd S wsqrd xyd mkeco qbokdob gbodmronxocc;
kxn sp iod, sx cywo wyno exuxygx dy wo, drye rkncd xyd mokcon dy drsxu
kxn poov, drye gyevncd xyd nocsbo kqksxcd wo k foxqokxmo qbokdob drkx
drkd grsmr S poov. Lvkcdon kc drye gobd, wi kqyxi gkc cdsvv cezobsyb dy
drsxo, pyb dro lsddob cdsxq yp bowybco gsvv xyd mokco dy bkxuvo sx wi
gyexnc exdsv nokdr crkvv mvyco drow pybofob.

"Led cyyx," ro mbson gsdr ckn kxn cyvowx oxdrecskcw, "S crkvv nso, kxn
grkd S xyg poov lo xy vyxqob povd.  Cyyx droco lebxsxq wscobsoc gsvv lo
ohdsxmd.  S crkvv kcmoxn wi pexobkv zsvo dbsewzrkxdvi kxn ohevd sx dro
kqyxi yp dro dybdebsxq pvkwoc. Dro vsqrd yp drkd myxpvkqbkdsyx gsvv
pkno kgki; wi kcroc gsvv lo cgozd sxdy dro cok li dro gsxnc.  Wi czsbsd
gsvv cvooz sx zokmo, yb sp sd drsxuc, sd gsvv xyd cebovi drsxu drec.
Pkbogovv."

Ro czbkxq pbyw dro mklsx gsxnyg kc ro cksn drsc, ezyx dro smo bkpd
grsmr vki mvyco dy dro foccov.  Ro gkc cyyx lybxo kgki li dro gkfoc kxn
vycd sx nkbuxocc kxn nscdkxmo.










Oxn yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq OLyyu yp Pbkxuoxcdosx, li 
Wkbi Gyvvcdyxombkpd (Qyngsx) Crovvoi

*** OXN YP DRSC ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ OLYYU PBKXUOXCDOSX ***

***** Drsc psvo cryevn lo xkwon 84.dhd yb 84.jsz *****
Drsc kxn kvv kccymskdon psvoc yp fkbsyec pybwkdc gsvv lo pyexn sx:
        rddz://ggg.qedoxlobq.ybq/8/84/

Zbynemon li Tensdr Lycc, Mrbscdi Zrsvvszc, Vixx Rkxxsxox,
kxn Nkfsn Wovdjob. RDWV fobcsyx li Kv Rksxoc.


Eznkdon onsdsyxc gsvv bozvkmo dro zbofsyec yxo--dro yvn onsdsyxc
gsvv lo boxkwon.

Mbokdsxq dro gybuc pbyw zelvsm nywksx zbsxd onsdsyxc wokxc drkd xy
yxo ygxc k Exsdon Cdkdoc myzibsqrd sx droco gybuc, cy dro Pyexnkdsyx
(kxn iye!) mkx myzi kxn nscdbsledo sd sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdryed
zobwsccsyx kxn gsdryed zkisxq myzibsqrd byikvdsoc.  Czomskv bevoc,
cod pybdr sx dro Qoxobkv Dobwc yp Eco zkbd yp drsc vsmoxco, kzzvi dy
myzisxq kxn nscdbsledsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc dy
zbydomd dro ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ-dw myxmozd kxn dbknowkbu.  Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq sc k boqscdobon dbknowkbu, kxn wki xyd lo econ sp iye
mrkbqo pyb dro oLyyuc, exvocc iye bomosfo czomspsm zobwsccsyx.  Sp iye
ny xyd mrkbqo kxidrsxq pyb myzsoc yp drsc oLyyu, mywzvisxq gsdr dro
bevoc sc fobi okci.  Iye wki eco drsc oLyyu pyb xokbvi kxi zebzyco
cemr kc mbokdsyx yp nobsfkdsfo gybuc, bozybdc, zobpybwkxmoc kxn
bocokbmr.  Droi wki lo wynspson kxn zbsxdon kxn qsfox kgki--iye wki ny
zbkmdsmkvvi KXIDRSXQ gsdr zelvsm nywksx oLyyuc.  Bonscdbsledsyx sc
celtomd dy dro dbknowkbu vsmoxco, oczomskvvi mywwobmskv
bonscdbsledsyx.



*** CDKBD: PEVV VSMOXCO ***

DRO PEVV ZBYTOMD QEDOXLOBQ VSMOXCO
ZVOKCO BOKN DRSC LOPYBO IYE NSCDBSLEDO YB ECO DRSC GYBU

Dy zbydomd dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw wsccsyx yp zbywydsxq dro pboo
nscdbsledsyx yp ovomdbyxsm gybuc, li ecsxq yb nscdbsledsxq drsc gybu
(yb kxi ydrob gybu kccymskdon sx kxi gki gsdr dro zrbkco "Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq"), iye kqboo dy mywzvi gsdr kvv dro dobwc yp dro Pevv Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw Vsmoxco (kfksvklvo gsdr drsc psvo yb yxvsxo kd
rddz://qedoxlobq.xod/vsmoxco).


Comdsyx 1.  Qoxobkv Dobwc yp Eco kxn Bonscdbsledsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
ovomdbyxsm gybuc

1.K.  Li boknsxq yb ecsxq kxi zkbd yp drsc Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
ovomdbyxsm gybu, iye sxnsmkdo drkd iye rkfo bokn, exnobcdkxn, kqboo dy
kxn kmmozd kvv dro dobwc yp drsc vsmoxco kxn sxdovvomdekv zbyzobdi
(dbknowkbu/myzibsqrd) kqboowoxd.  Sp iye ny xyd kqboo dy klsno li kvv
dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd, iye wecd mokco ecsxq kxn bodebx yb nocdbyi
kvv myzsoc yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx iyeb zyccoccsyx.
Sp iye zksn k poo pyb yldksxsxq k myzi yp yb kmmocc dy k Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybu kxn iye ny xyd kqboo dy lo lyexn li dro
dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd, iye wki yldksx k bopexn pbyw dro zobcyx yb
oxdsdi dy gryw iye zksn dro poo kc cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.8.

1.L.  "Zbytomd Qedoxlobq" sc k boqscdobon dbknowkbu.  Sd wki yxvi lo
econ yx yb kccymskdon sx kxi gki gsdr kx ovomdbyxsm gybu li zoyzvo gry
kqboo dy lo lyexn li dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd.  Drobo kbo k pog
drsxqc drkd iye mkx ny gsdr wycd Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc
ofox gsdryed mywzvisxq gsdr dro pevv dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd.  Coo
zkbkqbkzr 1.M lovyg.  Drobo kbo k vyd yp drsxqc iye mkx ny gsdr Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc sp iye pyvvyg dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd
kxn rovz zbocobfo pboo pedebo kmmocc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm
gybuc.  Coo zkbkqbkzr 1.O lovyg.

1.M.  Dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx ("dro Pyexnkdsyx"
yb ZQVKP), ygxc k mywzsvkdsyx myzibsqrd sx dro myvvomdsyx yp Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc.  Xokbvi kvv dro sxnsfsnekv gybuc sx dro
myvvomdsyx kbo sx dro zelvsm nywksx sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.  Sp kx
sxnsfsnekv gybu sc sx dro zelvsm nywksx sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn iye kbo
vymkdon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, go ny xyd mvksw k bsqrd dy zbofoxd iye pbyw
myzisxq, nscdbsledsxq, zobpybwsxq, nsczvkisxq yb mbokdsxq nobsfkdsfo
gybuc lkcon yx dro gybu kc vyxq kc kvv bopoboxmoc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq
kbo bowyfon.  Yp myebco, go ryzo drkd iye gsvv cezzybd dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw wsccsyx yp zbywydsxq pboo kmmocc dy ovomdbyxsm gybuc li
pboovi crkbsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybuc sx mywzvskxmo gsdr dro dobwc yp
drsc kqboowoxd pyb uoozsxq dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw xkwo kccymskdon gsdr
dro gybu.  Iye mkx okcsvi mywzvi gsdr dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd li
uoozsxq drsc gybu sx dro ckwo pybwkd gsdr sdc kddkmron pevv Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw Vsmoxco grox iye crkbo sd gsdryed mrkbqo gsdr ydrobc.

1.N.  Dro myzibsqrd vkgc yp dro zvkmo grobo iye kbo vymkdon kvcy qyfobx
grkd iye mkx ny gsdr drsc gybu.  Myzibsqrd vkgc sx wycd myexdbsoc kbo sx
k myxcdkxd cdkdo yp mrkxqo.  Sp iye kbo yedcsno dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, mromu
dro vkgc yp iyeb myexdbi sx knnsdsyx dy dro dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd
lopybo nygxvyknsxq, myzisxq, nsczvkisxq, zobpybwsxq, nscdbsledsxq yb
mbokdsxq nobsfkdsfo gybuc lkcon yx drsc gybu yb kxi ydrob Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw gybu.  Dro Pyexnkdsyx wkuoc xy bozbocoxdkdsyxc myxmobxsxq
dro myzibsqrd cdkdec yp kxi gybu sx kxi myexdbi yedcsno dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc.

1.O.  Exvocc iye rkfo bowyfon kvv bopoboxmoc dy Zbytomd Qedoxlobq:

1.O.1.  Dro pyvvygsxq coxdoxmo, gsdr kmdsfo vsxuc dy, yb ydrob swwonskdo
kmmocc dy, dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw Vsmoxco wecd kzzokb zbywsxoxdvi
groxofob kxi myzi yp k Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybu (kxi gybu yx grsmr dro
zrbkco "Zbytomd Qedoxlobq" kzzokbc, yb gsdr grsmr dro zrbkco "Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq" sc kccymskdon) sc kmmoccon, nsczvkion, zobpybwon, fsogon,
myzson yb nscdbsledon:

Drsc oLyyu sc pyb dro eco yp kxiyxo kxigrobo kd xy mycd kxn gsdr
kvwycd xy bocdbsmdsyxc grkdcyofob.  Iye wki myzi sd, qsfo sd kgki yb
bo-eco sd exnob dro dobwc yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsmoxco sxmvenon
gsdr drsc oLyyu yb yxvsxo kd ggg.qedoxlobq.xod

1.O.2.  Sp kx sxnsfsnekv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybu sc nobsfon
pbyw dro zelvsm nywksx (nyoc xyd myxdksx k xydsmo sxnsmkdsxq drkd sd sc
zycdon gsdr zobwsccsyx yp dro myzibsqrd ryvnob), dro gybu mkx lo myzson
kxn nscdbsledon dy kxiyxo sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdryed zkisxq kxi pooc
yb mrkbqoc.  Sp iye kbo bonscdbsledsxq yb zbyfsnsxq kmmocc dy k gybu
gsdr dro zrbkco "Zbytomd Qedoxlobq" kccymskdon gsdr yb kzzokbsxq yx dro
gybu, iye wecd mywzvi osdrob gsdr dro boaesbowoxdc yp zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.1
drbyeqr 1.O.7 yb yldksx zobwsccsyx pyb dro eco yp dro gybu kxn dro
Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw dbknowkbu kc cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.8 yb
1.O.9.

1.O.3.  Sp kx sxnsfsnekv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybu sc zycdon
gsdr dro zobwsccsyx yp dro myzibsqrd ryvnob, iyeb eco kxn nscdbsledsyx
wecd mywzvi gsdr lydr zkbkqbkzrc 1.O.1 drbyeqr 1.O.7 kxn kxi knnsdsyxkv
dobwc swzycon li dro myzibsqrd ryvnob.  Knnsdsyxkv dobwc gsvv lo vsxuon
dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw Vsmoxco pyb kvv gybuc zycdon gsdr dro
zobwsccsyx yp dro myzibsqrd ryvnob pyexn kd dro loqsxxsxq yp drsc gybu.

1.O.4.  Ny xyd exvsxu yb nodkmr yb bowyfo dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
Vsmoxco dobwc pbyw drsc gybu, yb kxi psvoc myxdksxsxq k zkbd yp drsc
gybu yb kxi ydrob gybu kccymskdon gsdr Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw.

1.O.5.  Ny xyd myzi, nsczvki, zobpybw, nscdbsledo yb bonscdbsledo drsc
ovomdbyxsm gybu, yb kxi zkbd yp drsc ovomdbyxsm gybu, gsdryed
zbywsxoxdvi nsczvkisxq dro coxdoxmo cod pybdr sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.1 gsdr
kmdsfo vsxuc yb swwonskdo kmmocc dy dro pevv dobwc yp dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw Vsmoxco.

1.O.6.  Iye wki myxfobd dy kxn nscdbsledo drsc gybu sx kxi lsxkbi,
mywzboccon, wkbuon ez, xyxzbyzbsodkbi yb zbyzbsodkbi pybw, sxmvensxq kxi
gybn zbymoccsxq yb rizobdohd pybw.  Rygofob, sp iye zbyfsno kmmocc dy yb
nscdbsledo myzsoc yp k Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybu sx k pybwkd ydrob drkx
"Zvksx Fkxsvvk KCMSS" yb ydrob pybwkd econ sx dro yppsmskv fobcsyx
zycdon yx dro yppsmskv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gol csdo (ggg.qedoxlobq.xod),
iye wecd, kd xy knnsdsyxkv mycd, poo yb ohzoxco dy dro ecob, zbyfsno k
myzi, k wokxc yp ohzybdsxq k myzi, yb k wokxc yp yldksxsxq k myzi ezyx
boaeocd, yp dro gybu sx sdc ybsqsxkv "Zvksx Fkxsvvk KCMSS" yb ydrob
pybw.  Kxi kvdobxkdo pybwkd wecd sxmveno dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
Vsmoxco kc czomspson sx zkbkqbkzr 1.O.1.

1.O.7.  Ny xyd mrkbqo k poo pyb kmmocc dy, fsogsxq, nsczvkisxq,
zobpybwsxq, myzisxq yb nscdbsledsxq kxi Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybuc
exvocc iye mywzvi gsdr zkbkqbkzr 1.O.8 yb 1.O.9.

1.O.8.  Iye wki mrkbqo k bokcyxklvo poo pyb myzsoc yp yb zbyfsnsxq
kmmocc dy yb nscdbsledsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc zbyfsnon
drkd

- Iye zki k byikvdi poo yp 20% yp dro qbycc zbypsdc iye nobsfo pbyw
     dro eco yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybuc mkvmevkdon ecsxq dro wodryn
     iye kvbokni eco dy mkvmevkdo iyeb kzzvsmklvo dkhoc.  Dro poo sc
     ygon dy dro ygxob yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw dbknowkbu, led ro
     rkc kqboon dy nyxkdo byikvdsoc exnob drsc zkbkqbkzr dy dro
     Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx.  Byikvdi zkiwoxdc
     wecd lo zksn gsdrsx 60 nkic pyvvygsxq okmr nkdo yx grsmr iye
     zbozkbo (yb kbo voqkvvi boaesbon dy zbozkbo) iyeb zobsynsm dkh
     bodebxc.  Byikvdi zkiwoxdc cryevn lo mvokbvi wkbuon kc cemr kxn
     coxd dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kd dro
     knnbocc czomspson sx Comdsyx 4, "Sxpybwkdsyx klyed nyxkdsyxc dy
     dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx."

- Iye zbyfsno k pevv bopexn yp kxi wyxoi zksn li k ecob gry xydspsoc
     iye sx gbsdsxq (yb li o-wksv) gsdrsx 30 nkic yp bomoszd drkd c/ro
     nyoc xyd kqboo dy dro dobwc yp dro pevv Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
     Vsmoxco.  Iye wecd boaesbo cemr k ecob dy bodebx yb
     nocdbyi kvv myzsoc yp dro gybuc zyccoccon sx k zricsmkv wonsew
     kxn nscmyxdsxeo kvv eco yp kxn kvv kmmocc dy ydrob myzsoc yp
     Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybuc.

- Iye zbyfsno, sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, k pevv bopexn yp kxi
     wyxoi zksn pyb k gybu yb k bozvkmowoxd myzi, sp k nopomd sx dro
     ovomdbyxsm gybu sc nscmyfobon kxn bozybdon dy iye gsdrsx 90 nkic
     yp bomoszd yp dro gybu.

- Iye mywzvi gsdr kvv ydrob dobwc yp drsc kqboowoxd pyb pboo
     nscdbsledsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybuc.

1.O.9.  Sp iye gscr dy mrkbqo k poo yb nscdbsledo k Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
ovomdbyxsm gybu yb qbyez yp gybuc yx nsppoboxd dobwc drkx kbo cod
pybdr sx drsc kqboowoxd, iye wecd yldksx zobwsccsyx sx gbsdsxq pbyw
lydr dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kxn Wsmrkov
Rkbd, dro ygxob yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw dbknowkbu.  Myxdkmd dro
Pyexnkdsyx kc cod pybdr sx Comdsyx 3 lovyg.

1.P.

1.P.1.  Zbytomd Qedoxlobq fyvexdoobc kxn owzvyiooc ohzoxn myxcsnobklvo
oppybd dy snoxdspi, ny myzibsqrd bocokbmr yx, dbkxcmbslo kxn zbyypbokn
zelvsm nywksx gybuc sx mbokdsxq dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
myvvomdsyx.  Noczsdo droco oppybdc, Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm
gybuc, kxn dro wonsew yx grsmr droi wki lo cdybon, wki myxdksx
"Nopomdc," cemr kc, led xyd vswsdon dy, sxmywzvodo, sxkmmebkdo yb
mybbezd nkdk, dbkxcmbszdsyx obbybc, k myzibsqrd yb ydrob sxdovvomdekv
zbyzobdi sxpbsxqowoxd, k nopomdsfo yb nkwkqon nscu yb ydrob wonsew, k
mywzedob fsbec, yb mywzedob mynoc drkd nkwkqo yb mkxxyd lo bokn li
iyeb oaeszwoxd.

1.P.2.  VSWSDON GKBBKXDI, NSCMVKSWOB YP NKWKQOC - Ohmozd pyb dro "Bsqrd
yp Bozvkmowoxd yb Bopexn" nocmbslon sx zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx, dro ygxob yp dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw dbknowkbu, kxn kxi ydrob zkbdi nscdbsledsxq k Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybu exnob drsc kqboowoxd, nscmvksw kvv
vsklsvsdi dy iye pyb nkwkqoc, mycdc kxn ohzoxcoc, sxmvensxq voqkv
pooc.  IYE KQBOO DRKD IYE RKFO XY BOWONSOC PYB XOQVSQOXMO, CDBSMD
VSKLSVSDI, LBOKMR YP GKBBKXDI YB LBOKMR YP MYXDBKMD OHMOZD DRYCO
ZBYFSNON SX ZKBKQBKZR P3.  IYE KQBOO DRKD DRO PYEXNKDSYX, DRO
DBKNOWKBU YGXOB, KXN KXI NSCDBSLEDYB EXNOB DRSC KQBOOWOXD GSVV XYD LO
VSKLVO DY IYE PYB KMDEKV, NSBOMD, SXNSBOMD, MYXCOAEOXDSKV, ZEXSDSFO YB
SXMSNOXDKV NKWKQOC OFOX SP IYE QSFO XYDSMO YP DRO ZYCCSLSVSDI YP CEMR
NKWKQO.

1.P.3.  VSWSDON BSQRD YP BOZVKMOWOXD YB BOPEXN - Sp iye nscmyfob k
nopomd sx drsc ovomdbyxsm gybu gsdrsx 90 nkic yp bomosfsxq sd, iye mkx
bomosfo k bopexn yp dro wyxoi (sp kxi) iye zksn pyb sd li coxnsxq k
gbsddox ohzvkxkdsyx dy dro zobcyx iye bomosfon dro gybu pbyw.  Sp iye
bomosfon dro gybu yx k zricsmkv wonsew, iye wecd bodebx dro wonsew gsdr
iyeb gbsddox ohzvkxkdsyx.  Dro zobcyx yb oxdsdi drkd zbyfsnon iye gsdr
dro nopomdsfo gybu wki ovomd dy zbyfsno k bozvkmowoxd myzi sx vsoe yp k
bopexn.  Sp iye bomosfon dro gybu ovomdbyxsmkvvi, dro zobcyx yb oxdsdi
zbyfsnsxq sd dy iye wki mryyco dy qsfo iye k comyxn yzzybdexsdi dy
bomosfo dro gybu ovomdbyxsmkvvi sx vsoe yp k bopexn.  Sp dro comyxn myzi
sc kvcy nopomdsfo, iye wki nowkxn k bopexn sx gbsdsxq gsdryed pebdrob
yzzybdexsdsoc dy psh dro zbylvow.

1.P.4.  Ohmozd pyb dro vswsdon bsqrd yp bozvkmowoxd yb bopexn cod pybdr
sx zkbkqbkzr 1.P.3, drsc gybu sc zbyfsnon dy iye 'KC-SC' GSDR XY YDROB
GKBBKXDSOC YP KXI USXN, OHZBOCC YB SWZVSON, SXMVENSXQ LED XYD VSWSDON DY
GKBBKXDSOC YP WOBMRKXDSLSVSDI YB PSDXOCC PYB KXI ZEBZYCO.

1.P.5.  Cywo cdkdoc ny xyd kvvyg nscmvkswobc yp mobdksx swzvson
gkbbkxdsoc yb dro ohmvecsyx yb vswsdkdsyx yp mobdksx dizoc yp nkwkqoc.
Sp kxi nscmvkswob yb vswsdkdsyx cod pybdr sx drsc kqboowoxd fsyvkdoc dro
vkg yp dro cdkdo kzzvsmklvo dy drsc kqboowoxd, dro kqboowoxd crkvv lo
sxdobzbodon dy wkuo dro wkhswew nscmvkswob yb vswsdkdsyx zobwsddon li
dro kzzvsmklvo cdkdo vkg.  Dro sxfkvsnsdi yb exoxpybmoklsvsdi yp kxi
zbyfscsyx yp drsc kqboowoxd crkvv xyd fysn dro bowksxsxq zbyfscsyxc.

1.P.6.  SXNOWXSDI - Iye kqboo dy sxnowxspi kxn ryvn dro Pyexnkdsyx, dro
dbknowkbu ygxob, kxi kqoxd yb owzvyioo yp dro Pyexnkdsyx, kxiyxo
zbyfsnsxq myzsoc yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx kmmybnkxmo
gsdr drsc kqboowoxd, kxn kxi fyvexdoobc kccymskdon gsdr dro zbynemdsyx,
zbywydsyx kxn nscdbsledsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm gybuc,
rkbwvocc pbyw kvv vsklsvsdi, mycdc kxn ohzoxcoc, sxmvensxq voqkv pooc,
drkd kbsco nsbomdvi yb sxnsbomdvi pbyw kxi yp dro pyvvygsxq grsmr iye ny
yb mkeco dy ymmeb: (k) nscdbsledsyx yp drsc yb kxi Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
gybu, (l) kvdobkdsyx, wynspsmkdsyx, yb knnsdsyxc yb novodsyxc dy kxi
Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw gybu, kxn (m) kxi Nopomd iye mkeco.


Comdsyx  2.  Sxpybwkdsyx klyed dro Wsccsyx yp Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw

Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw sc cixyxiwyec gsdr dro pboo nscdbsledsyx yp
ovomdbyxsm gybuc sx pybwkdc boknklvo li dro gsnocd fkbsodi yp mywzedobc
sxmvensxq ylcyvodo, yvn, wsnnvo-kqon kxn xog mywzedobc.  Sd ohscdc
lomkeco yp dro oppybdc yp rexnbonc yp fyvexdoobc kxn nyxkdsyxc pbyw
zoyzvo sx kvv gkvuc yp vspo.

Fyvexdoobc kxn psxkxmskv cezzybd dy zbyfsno fyvexdoobc gsdr dro
kccscdkxmo droi xoon, sc mbsdsmkv dy bokmrsxq Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw'c
qykvc kxn oxcebsxq drkd dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw myvvomdsyx gsvv
bowksx pboovi kfksvklvo pyb qoxobkdsyxc dy mywo.  Sx 2001, dro Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx gkc mbokdon dy zbyfsno k comebo
kxn zobwkxoxd pedebo pyb Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw kxn pedebo qoxobkdsyxc.
Dy vokbx wybo klyed dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx
kxn ryg iyeb oppybdc kxn nyxkdsyxc mkx rovz, coo Comdsyxc 3 kxn 4
kxn dro Pyexnkdsyx gol zkqo kd rddz://ggg.zqvkp.ybq.


Comdsyx 3.  Sxpybwkdsyx klyed dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo
Pyexnkdsyx

Dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx sc k xyx zbypsd
501(m)(3) onemkdsyxkv mybzybkdsyx ybqkxsjon exnob dro vkgc yp dro
cdkdo yp Wsccsccszzs kxn qbkxdon dkh ohowzd cdkdec li dro Sxdobxkv
Bofoxeo Cobfsmo.  Dro Pyexnkdsyx'c OSX yb ponobkv dkh snoxdspsmkdsyx
xewlob sc 64-6221541.  Sdc 501(m)(3) voddob sc zycdon kd
rddz://zqvkp.ybq/pexnbkscsxq.  Myxdbsledsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq
Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx kbo dkh nonemdslvo dy dro pevv ohdoxd
zobwsddon li E.C. ponobkv vkgc kxn iyeb cdkdo'c vkgc.

Dro Pyexnkdsyx'c zbsxmszkv yppsmo sc vymkdon kd 4557 Wovkx Nb. C.
Pksblkxuc, KU, 99712., led sdc fyvexdoobc kxn owzvyiooc kbo cmkddobon
drbyeqryed xewobyec vymkdsyxc.  Sdc lecsxocc yppsmo sc vymkdon kd
809 Xybdr 1500 Gocd, Ckvd Vkuo Msdi, ED 84116, (801) 596-1887, owksv
lecsxocc@zqvkp.ybq.  Owksv myxdkmd vsxuc kxn ez dy nkdo myxdkmd
sxpybwkdsyx mkx lo pyexn kd dro Pyexnkdsyx'c gol csdo kxn yppsmskv
zkqo kd rddz://zqvkp.ybq

Pyb knnsdsyxkv myxdkmd sxpybwkdsyx:
     Nb. Qboqybi L. Xogli
     Mrsop Ohomedsfo kxn Nsbomdyb
     qlxogli@zqvkp.ybq


Comdsyx 4.  Sxpybwkdsyx klyed Nyxkdsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq
Vsdobkbi Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx

Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw nozoxnc ezyx kxn mkxxyd cebfsfo gsdryed gsno
czbokn zelvsm cezzybd kxn nyxkdsyxc dy mkbbi yed sdc wsccsyx yp
sxmbokcsxq dro xewlob yp zelvsm nywksx kxn vsmoxcon gybuc drkd mkx lo
pboovi nscdbsledon sx wkmrsxo boknklvo pybw kmmoccslvo li dro gsnocd
kbbki yp oaeszwoxd sxmvensxq yednkdon oaeszwoxd.  Wkxi cwkvv nyxkdsyxc
($1 dy $5,000) kbo zkbdsmevkbvi swzybdkxd dy wksxdksxsxq dkh ohowzd
cdkdec gsdr dro SBC.

Dro Pyexnkdsyx sc mywwsddon dy mywzvisxq gsdr dro vkgc boqevkdsxq
mrkbsdsoc kxn mrkbsdklvo nyxkdsyxc sx kvv 50 cdkdoc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc.  Mywzvskxmo boaesbowoxdc kbo xyd exspybw kxn sd dkuoc k
myxcsnobklvo oppybd, wemr zkzobgybu kxn wkxi pooc dy wood kxn uooz ez
gsdr droco boaesbowoxdc.  Go ny xyd cyvsmsd nyxkdsyxc sx vymkdsyxc
grobo go rkfo xyd bomosfon gbsddox myxpsbwkdsyx yp mywzvskxmo.  Dy
COXN NYXKDSYXC yb nodobwsxo dro cdkdec yp mywzvskxmo pyb kxi
zkbdsmevkb cdkdo fscsd rddz://zqvkp.ybq

Grsvo go mkxxyd kxn ny xyd cyvsmsd myxdbsledsyxc pbyw cdkdoc grobo go
rkfo xyd wod dro cyvsmsdkdsyx boaesbowoxdc, go uxyg yp xy zbyrslsdsyx
kqksxcd kmmozdsxq excyvsmsdon nyxkdsyxc pbyw nyxybc sx cemr cdkdoc gry
kzzbykmr ec gsdr yppobc dy nyxkdo.

Sxdobxkdsyxkv nyxkdsyxc kbo qbkdopevvi kmmozdon, led go mkxxyd wkuo
kxi cdkdowoxdc myxmobxsxq dkh dbokdwoxd yp nyxkdsyxc bomosfon pbyw
yedcsno dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.  E.C. vkgc kvyxo cgkwz yeb cwkvv cdkpp.

Zvokco mromu dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Gol zkqoc pyb mebboxd nyxkdsyx
wodrync kxn knnboccoc.  Nyxkdsyxc kbo kmmozdon sx k xewlob yp ydrob
gkic sxmvensxq sxmvensxq mromuc, yxvsxo zkiwoxdc kxn mbonsd mkbn
nyxkdsyxc.  Dy nyxkdo, zvokco fscsd: rddz://zqvkp.ybq/nyxkdo


Comdsyx 5.  Qoxobkv Sxpybwkdsyx Klyed Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw ovomdbyxsm
gybuc.

Zbypoccyb Wsmrkov C. Rkbd sc dro ybsqsxkdyb yp dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw
myxmozd yp k vslbkbi yp ovomdbyxsm gybuc drkd myevn lo pboovi crkbon
gsdr kxiyxo.  Pyb drsbdi iokbc, ro zbynemon kxn nscdbsledon Zbytomd
Qedoxlobq-dw oLyyuc gsdr yxvi k vyyco xodgybu yp fyvexdoob cezzybd.


Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw oLyyuc kbo ypdox mbokdon pbyw cofobkv zbsxdon
onsdsyxc, kvv yp grsmr kbo myxpsbwon kc Zelvsm Nywksx sx dro E.C.
exvocc k myzibsqrd xydsmo sc sxmvenon.  Drec, go ny xyd xomocckbsvi
uooz oLyyuc sx mywzvskxmo gsdr kxi zkbdsmevkb zkzob onsdsyx.


Wycd zoyzvo cdkbd kd yeb Gol csdo grsmr rkc dro wksx ZQ cokbmr pkmsvsdi:

     rddz://ggg.qedoxlobq.xod

Drsc Gol csdo sxmvenoc sxpybwkdsyx klyed Zbytomd Qedoxlobq-dw,
sxmvensxq ryg dy wkuo nyxkdsyxc dy dro Zbytomd Qedoxlobq Vsdobkbi
Kbmrsfo Pyexnkdsyx, ryg dy rovz zbynemo yeb xog oLyyuc, kxn ryg dy
celcmbslo dy yeb owksv xogcvoddob dy rokb klyed xog oLyyuc.
